Question 10
Which two statements about wireless LAN controllers are true? (Choose two.)
A. They can simplify the management and deployment of wireless LANs.
B. They rely on external firewalls for WLAN security.
C. They are best suited to smaller wireless networks.
D. They must be configured through a GUI over HTTP or HTTPS.
E. They can manage mobility policies at a systemwide level.
Answer: AE
Question 10
What should be part of a comprehensive network security plan?
A. Allow users to develop their own approach to network security.
B. Physically secure network equipment from potential access by unauthorized individuals
C. Encourage users to use personal information in their passwords to minimize the likelihood of passwords being forgotten.
D. Delay deployment of software patches and updates until their effect on end-user equipment is well known and widely reported
E. Minimize network overhead by deactivating automatic antivirus client updates.
Answer: B
Question 11
Which command can you enter to determine whether a switch is operating in trunking mode?
A. show ip interface brief
B. show vlan
C. show interfaces
D. show interface switchport
Answer: D
Question 12
Which command is necessary to permit SSH or Telnet access to a cisco switch that is otherwise configured for these vty line protocols?
A. transport type all
B. transport output all
C. transport preferred all
D. transport input all
Answer: D
Question 13
Which feature can you implement to reserve bandwidth for VoIP calls across the call path?
A. PQ
B. CBWFQ
C. round robin
D. RSVP
Answer: D
Explanation:
When implemented on all nodes in the path, RSVP guarantees bandwidth for the call along the entire path for the entire duration of the call. This is the only
technique that achieves this level of accuracy.
Question 15
Which interface counter can you use to diagnose a duplex mismatch problem?
A. no earner
B. late collisions
C. giants
D. CRC errors
E. deferred
F. runts
Answer: B
Question 16
Which switching method duplicates the first six bytes of a frame before making a switching decision?
A. fragment-free switching
B. store and-forward switching
C. cut through switching
D. ASIC switching
Answer: C
Explanation:
Cut and Through method has lowest latency. In this method Switch only read first six bytes from frame after the preamble. These six bytes are the destination address
of frame. This is the fastest method of switching. This method also processes invalid frames. Only advantage of this method is speed.
Question 17
Which two statements about northbound and southbound APIs are true? (Choose two.)
A. Only southbound APIs allow program control of the network.
B. Only northbound APIs allow program control of the network.
C. Only southbound API interfaces use a Service Abstraction Layer.
D. Only northbound API interfaces use a Service Abstraction Layer.
E. Both northbound and southbound API interfaces use a Service Abstraction Layer.
F. Both northbound and southbound APIs allow program control of the network.
Answer: BC
Question 18
Which logging command can enable administrators to correlate syslog messages with millisecond precision?
A. no logging console
B. logging buffered 4
C. no logging monitor
D. service timestamps log datetime msec
E. logging host 10.2.0.21
Answer: D
Question 19
Which two passwords must be supplied in order to connect by Telnet to a properly secured Cisco switch and make changes to the device configuration? (Choose
two.)
A. tty password
B. enable secret password
C. vty password
D. aux password
E. console password
F. username password
Answer: BC
Question 20
During which phase of PPPoE is PPP authentication performed?
A. the PPP Session phase
B. Phase 2
C. the Active Discovery phase
D. the Authentication phase
E. Phase 1
Answer: A
Question 21
Which two Cisco IOS commands, used in troubleshooting, can enable debug output to a remote location? (Choose two)
A. no logging console
B. logging host ip-address
C. terminal monitor
D. show logging | redirect flashioutput.txt
E. snmp-server enable traps syslog
Answer: BC
Question 22
Which command can you enter to verify that a 128-bit address is live and responding?
A. traceroute
B. telnet
C. ping
D. ping ipv6
Answer: D
Question 23
Which two statements about using leased lines for your WAN infrastructure are true? (Choose two.)
A. Leased lines provide inexpensive WAN access.
B. Leased lines with sufficient bandwidth can avoid latency between endpoints.
C. Leased lines require little installation and maintenance expertise.
D. Leased lines provide highly flexible bandwidth scaling.
E. Multiple leased lines can share a router interface.
F. Leased lines support up to T1 link speeds.
Answer: CD
Question 24
Which command can you enter to display duplicate IP addresses that the DHCP server assigns?
A. show ip dhcp conflict 10.0.2.12
B. show ip dhcp database 10.0.2.12
C. show ip dhcp server statistics
D. show ip dhcp binding 10.0.2.12
Answer: A
Question 25
Which three circumstances can cause a GRE tunnel to be in an up/down state? (Choose three.)
A. The tunnel interface IP address is misconfigured.
B. The tunnel interface is down.
C. A valid route to the destination address is missing from the routing table.
D. The tunnel address is routed through the tunnel itself.
E. The ISP is blocking the traffic.
F. An ACL is blocking the outbound traffic.
Answer: BCD
Question 26
Which command can you enter to verify that a BGP connection to a remote device is established?
A. show ip bgp summary
B. show ip community-list
C. show ip bgp paths
D. show ip route
Answer: A
Question 27
What is the authoritative source for an address lookup?
A. a recursive DNS search
B. the operating system cache
C. the ISP local cache
D. the browser cache
Answer: A
Question 28
What are two benefits of private IPv4 IP addresses? (Choose two.)
A. They are routed the same as public IP addresses.
B. They are less costly than public IP addresses.
C. They can be assigned to devices without Internet connections.
D. They eliminate the necessity for NAT policies.
E. They eliminate duplicate IP conflicts.
Answer: BC
Question 29
Which statement about LLDP is true?
A. It is a Cisco proprietary protocol
B. It is configured in global configuration mode.
C. The LLDP update frequency is a fixed value.
D. It runs over the transport layer.
Answer: B
Question 30
Which type of device can be replaced by the use of subinterfaces for VLAN routing?
A. Layer 2 bridge
B. Layer 2 switch
C. Layer 3 switch
D. router
Answer: C
Question 31
Which two statements about IPv4 multicast traffic are true? (Choose two.)
A. It burdens the source host without affecting remote hosts.
B. It uses a minimum amount of network bandwidth.
C. It is bandwidth-intensive.
D. It simultaneously delivers multiple streams of data.
E. It is the most efficient way to deliver data to multiple receivers.
Answer: DE
Question 32
Which statement about RADIUS security is true?
A. It supports EAP authentication for connecting to wireless networks.
B. It provides encrypted multiprotocol support.
C. Device-administration packets are encrypted in their entirety.
D. It ensures that user activity is fully anonymous.
Answer: A
Question 33
Which condition does the err-disabled status indicate on an Ethernet interface?
A. There is a duplex mismatch.
B. The device at the other end of the connection is powered off.
C. The serial interface is disabled.
D. The interface is configured with the shutdown command.
E. Port security has disabled the interface.
F. The interface is fully functioning.
Answer: E
Question 34
Which function of the IP SLAs ICMP jitter operation can you use to determine whether a VoIP issue is caused by excessive end-to-end time?
A. packet loss
B. jitter
C. successive packet loss
D. round-trip time latency
Answer: D
Question 35
Which command can you enter to determine whether serial interface 0/2/0 has been configured using HDLC encapsulation?
A. router#show platform
B. router#show interfaces Serial 0/2/0
C. router#show ip interface s0/2/0
D. router#show ip interface brief
Answer: B
Question 36
What are three characteristics of the TCP protocol? (Choose three.)
A. It uses a single SYN-ACK message to establish a connection.
B. The connection is established before data is transmitted.
C. It ensures that all data is transmitted and received by the remote device.
D. It supports significantly higher transmission speeds than UDP.
E. It requires applications to determine when data packets must be retransmitted.
F. It uses separate SYN and ACK messages to establish a connection.
Answer: BCF
Question 37
When an interface is configured with PortFast BPDU guard, how does the interface respond when it receives a BPDU?
A. It continues operating normally.
B. It goes into a down/down state.
C. It becomes the root bridge for the configured VLAN.
D. It goes into an errdisable state.
Answer: D
Question 38
In which two formats can the IPv6 address fd15:0db8:0000:0000:0700:0003:400F:572B be written? (Choose two.)
A. fd15:0db8:0000:0000:700:3:400F:527B
B. d15::db8::700:3:400F:527B
C. fd15:db8:0::700:3:4F:527B
D. fd15:0db8::7:3:4F:527B
E. fd15:db8::700:3:400F:572B
Answer: AE
Question 39
Configuration of which option is required on a Cisco switch for the Cisco IP phone to work?
A. PortFast on the interface
B. the interface as an access port to allow the voice VLAN ID
C. a voice VLAN ID in interface and global configuration mode
D. Cisco Discovery Protocol in global configuration mode
Answer: B
Explanation:
Configure the Switch Port to Carry Both Voice and Data TrafficWhen you connect an IP phone to a switch using a trunk link, it can cause high CPU utilization in the
switches. As all the VLANs for a particular interface are trunked to the phone, it increases the number of STP instances the switch has to manage. This increases the
CPU utilization. Trunking also causes unnecessary broadcast / multicast / unknown unicast traffic to hit the phone link. In order to avoid this, remove the trunk
configuration and keep the voice and access VLAN configured along with Quality of Service (QoS). Technically, it is still a trunk, but it is called a Multi-VLAN
Access Port (MVAP).
Because voice and data traffic can travel through the same port, you should specify a different VLAN for each type of traffic. You can configure a switch port to
forward voice and data traffic on different VLANs. Configure IP phone ports with a voice VLAN configuration. This configuration creates a pseudo trunk, but does
not require you to manually prune the unnecessary VLANs.
The voice VLAN feature enables access ports to carry IP voice traffic from an IP phone.
The voice VLAN feature is disabled by default. The Port Fast feature is automatically enabled when voice VLAN is configured. When you disable voice VLAN, the
Port Fast feature is not automatically disabled.
Question 40
Which method does a connected trunk port use to tag VLAN traffic?
A. IEEE 802 1w
B. IEEE 802 1D
C. IEEE 802 1Q
D. IEEE 802 1p
Answer: C
Explanation:
http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/lan-switching/8021q/17056-741-4.html
Question 41
Which RFC was created to alleviate the depletion of IPv4 public addresses?
A. RFC 4193
B. RFC 1519
C. RFC 1518
D. RFC 1918
Answer: C
Question 42
What is the default lease time for a DHCP binding?
A. 24 hours
B. 12 hours
C. 48 hours
D. 36 hours
Answer: A
Explanation:
By default, each IP address assigned by a DHCP Server comes with a one- day lease, which is the amount of time that the address is valid. To change the lease value
for an IP address, use the following command in DHCP pool configuration mode:
Question 43
Which NAT type is used to translate a single inside address to a single outside address?
A. dynamic NAT
B. NAT overload
C. PAT
D. static NAT
Answer: D
Explanation:
Network address translation (NAT) is the process of modifying IP address information in IP packet headers while in transit across a traffic routing device.
There are two different types of NAT:
NAT
PAT
Question 44
Which network topology allows all traffic to flow through a central hub?
A. bus
B. star
C. mesh
D. ring
Answer: B
Question 45
Which statement about a router on a stick is true?
A. Its date plane router traffic for a single VI AN over two or more switches.
B. It uses multiple subinterfaces of a single interface to encapsulate traffic for different VLANs on the same subnet.
C. It requires the native VLAN to be disabled.
D. It uses multiple subinterfaces of a single interface to encapsulate traffic for different VLANs.
Answer: D
Explanation:
https://www.freeccnaworkbook.com/workbooks/ccna/configuring-inter-vlan-routing-router-on-astick
Question 46
By default, how many MAC addresses are permitted to be learned on a switch port with port security enabled?
A. 8
B. 2
C. 1
D. 0
Answer: C
Question 47
Two hosts are attached to a switch with the default configuration. Which statement about the configuration is true?
A. IP routing must be enabled to allow the two hosts to communicate.
B. The two hosts are in the same broadcast domain.
C. The switch must be configured with a VLAN to allow the two hosts to communicate.
D. Port security prevents the hosts from connecting to the switch.
Answer: A
Explanation:
IP routing must be enables to allow the two hosts to communicate with each other with default configuration.
http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/lan-switching/inter-vlan-routing/41860-howto-L3-intervlanrouting.html
Question 48
Which device allows users to connect to the network using a single or double radio?
Which device allows users to connect to the network using a single or double radio?
A. access point
B. switch
C. wireless controller
D. firewall
Answer: A
Question 49
When enabled, which feature prevents routing protocols from sending hello messages on an interface’?
A. virtual links
B. passive-interface
C. directed neighbors
D. OSPF areas
Answer: B
Explanation:
You can use the passive-interface command in order to control the advertisement of routing information. The command enables the suppression of routing updates
over some interfaces while it allows updates to be exchanged normally over other interfaces. With most routing protocols, the passive-interface command restricts
outgoing advertisements only.
But, when used with Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP), the effect is slightly different. This document demonstrates that use of the passiveinterface
command in EIGRP suppresses the exchange of hello packets between two routers, which results in the loss of their neighbor relationship. This stops not
only routing updates from being advertised, but it also suppresses incoming routing updates. This document also discusses the configuration required in order to
allow the suppression of outgoing routing updates, while it also allows incoming routing updates to be learned normally from the neighbor.

Question 51
Which route source code represents the routing protocol with a default administrative distance of 90 in the routing table?
Which route source code represents the routing protocol with a default administrative distance of 90 in the routing table?
A. S
B. E
C. D
D. R
E. O
Answer: C
Explanation:
SStatic
EEGP
DEIGRP
RRIP
OOSPF
Default Administrative distance of EIGRP protocol is 90 then answer is C.
Default Distance Value TableThis table lists the administrative distance default values of the protocols that Cisco supports:
Route Source
Default Distance Values
Connected interface
Static route
Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) summary route External Border Gateway
Protocol (BGP)
Internal EIGRP
IGRP
OSPF
Intermediate System-to-Intermediate System (IS-IS) Routing Information Protocol (RIP)
Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP)
On Demand Routing (ODR)
External EIGRP
Internal BGP
Unknown*
Question 52
Which statement about native VLAN traffic is true?
Which statement about native VLAN traffic is true?
A. Cisco Discovery Protocol traffic travels on the native VLAN by default
B. Traffic on the native VLAN is tagged with 1 by default
C. Control plane traffic is blocked on the native VLAN.
D. The native VLAN is typically disabled for security reasons
Answer: B
Question 53
Which statement about unicast frame forwarding on a switch is true?
Which statement about unicast frame forwarding on a switch is true?
A. The TCAM table stores destination MAC addresses
B. If the destination MAC address is unknown, the frame is flooded to every port that is configured in the same VLAN except on the port that it was received on.
C. The CAM table is used to determine whether traffic is permitted or denied on a switch
D. The source address is used to determine the switch port to which a frame is forwarded
Answer: B
Question 54
Which option is a valid hostname for a switch?
Which option is a valid hostname for a switch?
A. Switch-Cisco
B. Switch-Cisco!
C. SwitchCisco
D. SwitchCisc0
Answer: C
Question 55
Which component of the routing table ranks routing protocols according to their preferences?
Which component of the routing table ranks routing protocols according to their preferences?
A. administrative distance
B. next hop
C. metric
D. routing protocol code
Answer: A
Explanation:
Administrative distance – This is the measure of trustworthiness of the source of the route. If a router learns about a destination from more than one routing protocol,
administrative distance is compared and the preference is given to the routes with lower administrative distance. In other words, it is the believability of the source of
the route.
Question 56
Which value is indicated by the next hop in a routing table?
Which value is indicated by the next hop in a routing table?
A. preference of the route source
B. IP address of the remote router for forwarding the packets
C. how the route was learned
D. exit interface IP address for forwarding the packets
Answer: D
Explanation:
The routing table contains network/next hop associations. These associations tell a router that a particular destination can be optimally reached by sending the
packet to a specific router that represents the “next hop” on the way to the final destination. The next hop association can also be the outgoing or exit interface to the
final destination.
Question 57
Which statement about the inside interface configuration in a NAT deployment is true?
Which statement about the inside interface configuration in a NAT deployment is true?
A. It is defined globally
B. It identifies the location of source addresses for outgoing packets to be translated using access or route maps.
C. It must be configured if static NAT is used
D. It identifies the public IP address that traffic will use to reach the internet.
Answer: B
Explanation:
This module describes how to configure Network Address Translation (NAT) for IP address conservation and how to configure inside and outside source addresses.
This module also provides information about the benefits of configuring NAT for IP address conservation.
NAT enables private IP internetworks that use nonregistered IP addresses to connect to the Internet. NAT operates on a device, usually connecting two networks, and
translates the private (not globally unique) addresses in the internal network into legal addresses before packets are forwarded onto another network. NAT can be
configured to advertise to the outside world only one address for the entire network. This ability provides additional security by effectively hiding the entire internal
network behind that one address. NAT is also used at the enterprise edge to allow internal users access to the Internet and to allow Internet access to internal devices
such as mail servers.
Question 58
Which option is the default switch port port-security violation mode?
Which option is the default switch port port-security violation mode?
A. shutdown
B. protect
C. shutdown vlan
D. restrict
Answer: A
Explanation:
Shutdown–This mode is the default violation mode; when in this mode, the switch will automatically force the switchport into an error disabled (err-disable) state
when a violation occurs. While in this state, the switchport forwards no traffic. The switchport can be brought out of this error disabled state by issuing the errdisable
recovery cause CLI command or by disabling and reenabling the switchport.
Shutdown VLAN–This mode mimics the behavior of the shutdown mode but limits the error disabled state the specific violating VLAN.
Question 59
Which entity assigns IPv6 addresses to end users?
Which entity assigns IPv6 addresses to end users?
A. ICANN
B. APNIC
C. RIR
D. ISPs
Answer: C
Question 60
Which MTU size can cause a baby giant error?
Which MTU size can cause a baby giant error?
A. 1500
B. 9216
C. 1600
D. 1518
Answer: C
Explanation:
http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/switches/catalyst-4000-series-switches/29805-175.html
Question 61
Which destination IP address can a host use to send one message to multiple devices across different subnets?
Which destination IP address can a host use to send one message to multiple devices across different subnets?
A. 172.20.1.0
B. 127.0.0.1
C. 192.168.0.119
D. 239.255.0.1
Answer: D
Explanation:
Multicast is a networking protocol where one host can send a message to a special multicast IP address and one or more network devices can listen for and receive
those messages.
Multicast works by taking advantage of the existing IPv4 networking infrastructure, and it does so in something of a weird fashion. As you read, keep in mind that
things are a little confusing because multicast was “shoe-horned” in to an existing technology. For the rest of this article, let’s use the multicast IP address of
239.255.0.1. We’ll not worry about port numbers yet, but make a mental note that they are used in multicast. We’ll discuss that later.
Question 62
What is one requirement for interfaces to run IPv6?
What is one requirement for interfaces to run IPv6?
A. An IPv6 address must be configured on the interface.
B. An IPv4 address must be configured.
C. Stateless autoconfiguration must be enabled after enabling IPv6 on the interface.
D. IPv6 must be enabled with the ipv6 enable command in global configuration mode.
Answer: A
Explanation:
To use IPv6 on your router, you must, at a minimum, enable the protocol and assign IPv6 addresses to your interfaces.
Question 63
Which dynamic routing protocol uses only the hop count to determine the best path to a destination?
Which dynamic routing protocol uses only the hop count to determine the best path to a destination?
A. IGRP
B. RIP
C. EIGRP
D. OSPF
Answer: C
Question 64
Which feature allows a device to use a switch port that is configured for half-duplex to access the network?
Which feature allows a device to use a switch port that is configured for half-duplex to access the network?
A. CSMA/CD
B. IGMP
C. port security
D. split horizon
Answer: A
Explanation:
Ethernet began as a local area network technology that provided a half-duplex shared channel for stations connected to coaxial cable segments linked with signal
repeaters. In this appendix, we take a detailed look at the half-duplex shared-channel mode of operation, and at the CSMA/CD mechanism that makes it work.
In the original half-duplex mode, the CSMA/CD protocol allows a set of stations to compete for access to a shared Ethernet channel in a fair and equitable manner.
The protocol’s rules determine the behavior of Ethernet stations, including when they are allowed to transmit a frame onto a shared Ethernet channel, and what to do
when a collision occurs. Today, virtually all devices are connected to Ethernet switch ports over full-duplex media, such as twisted-pair cables. On this type of
connection, assuming that both devices can support the full-duplex mode of operation and that Auto-Negotiation (AN) is enabled, the AN protocol will automatically
select the highest-performance mode of operation supported by the devices at each end of the link. That will result in full-duplex mode for the vast majority of
Ethernet connections with modern interfaces that support full duplex and AN.
Question 65
Which function enables an administrator to route multiple VLANs on a router?
Which function enables an administrator to route multiple VLANs on a router?
A. IEEE 802 1X
B. HSRP
C. port channel
D. router on a stick
Answer: D
Question 66
Which technology supports the stateless assignment of IPv6 addresses?
Which technology supports the stateless assignment of IPv6 addresses?
A. DNS
B. DHCPv6
C. DHCP
D. autoconfiguration
Answer: B
Explanation:
DHCPv6 Technology Overview
IPv6 Internet Address Assignment Overview
IPv6 has been developed with Internet Address assignment dynamics in mind. Being aware that
IPv6 Internet addresses are 128 bits in length and written in hexadecimals makes automation of address-assignment an important aspect within network design.
These attributes make it inconvenient for a user to manually assign IPv6 addresses, as the format is not naturally intuitive to the human eye. To facilitate address
assignment with little or no human intervention, several methods and technologies have been developed to automate the process of address and configuration
parameter assignment to IPv6 hosts. The various IPv6 address assignment methods are as follows:
1. Manual Assignment
An IPv6 address can be statically configured by a human operator. However, manual assignment is quite open to errors and operational overhead due to the 128 bit
length and hexadecimal attributes of the addresses, although for router interfaces and static network elements and resources this can be an appropriate solution.
2. Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (RFC2462)
Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC) is one of the most convenient methods to assign Internet addresses to IPv6 nodes. This method does not require any
human intervention at all from an IPv6 user. If one wants to use IPv6 SLAAC on an IPv6 node, it is important that this IPv6 node is connected to a network with at
least one IPv6 router connected. This router is configured by the network administrator and sends out Router Advertisement announcements onto the link.
These announcements can allow the on-link connected IPv6 nodes to configure themselves with IPv6 address and routing parameters, as specified in RFC2462,
without further human intervention.
3. Stateful DHCPv6
The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6) has been standardized by the IETF through RFC3315. DHCPv6 enables DHCP servers to pass
configuration parameters, such as IPv6 network addresses, to IPv6 nodes. It offers the capability of automatic allocation of reusable network addresses and
additional configuration flexibility. This protocol is a stateful counterpart to “IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration” (RFC 2462), and can be used separately, or
in addition to the stateless autoconfiguration to obtain configuration parameters.
4. DHCPv6-PD
DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation (DHCPv6-PD) is an extension to DHCPv6, and is specified in RFC3633. Classical DHCPv6 is typically focused upon parameter
assignment from a DHCPv6 server to an IPv6 host running a DHCPv6 protocol stack. A practical example would be the stateful address assignment of
“2001:db8::1” from a DHCPv6 server to a DHCPv6 client.
DHCPv6-PD however is aimed at assigning complete subnets and other network and interface parameters from a DHCPv6-PD server to a DHCPv6-PD client. This
means that instead of a single address assignment, DHCPv6-PD will assign a set of IPv6 “subnets”. An example could be the assignment of “2001:db8::/60” from a
DHCPv6-PD server to a DHCPv6-PD client. This will allow the DHCPv6-PD client (often a CPE device) to segment the received address IPv6 address space, and
assign it dynamically to its IPv6 enabled interfaces.
5. Stateless DHCPv6
Stateless DHCPv6 is a combination of “stateless Address Autoconfiguration” and “Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6” and is specified by RFC3736.
When using stateless- DHCPv6, a device will use Stateless Address Auto-Configuration (SLAAC) to assign one or more IPv6 addresses to an interface, while it
utilizes DHCPv6 to receive “additional parameters” which may not be available through SLAAC. For example, additional parameters could include information
such as DNS or NTP server addresses, and are provided in a stateless manner by DHCPv6.
Using stateless DHCPv6 means that the DHCPv6 server does not need to keep track of any state of assigned IPv6 addresses, and there is no need for state
refreshment as result. On network media supporting a large number of hosts associated to a single DHCPv6 server, this could mean a significant reduction in
DHCPv6 messages due to the reduced need for address state refreshments. From Cisco IOS 12.4(15)T onwards the client can also receive timing information, in
addition to the “additional parameters” through DHCPv6. This timing information provides an indication to a host when it should refresh its DHCPv6 configuration
data. This behavior (RFC4242) is particularly useful in unstable environments where changes are likely to occur.
Question 67
Which statement about routing protocols is true?
Which statement about routing protocols is true?
A. Link-state routing protocols choose a path by the number of hops to the destination.
B. OSPF is a link-state routing protocol.
C. Distance-vector routing protocols use the Shortest Path First algorithm.
D. IS-IS is a distance-vector routing protocol.
Answer: A
Explanation:
Link State Routing Protocols
Link state protocols are also called shortest-path-first protocols. Link state routing protocols have a complete picture of the network topology. Hence they know more
about the whole network than any distance vector protocol.
Three separate tables are created on each link state routing enabled router. One table is used to hold details about directly connected neighbors, one is used to hold
the topology of the entire internetwork and the last one is used to hold the actual routing table. Link state protocols send information about directly connected links to
all the routers in the network. Examples of Link state routing protocols include OSPF – Open Shortest Path First and IS-IS – Intermediate System to Intermediate
System. There are also routing protocols that are considered to be hybrid in the sense that they use aspects of both distance vector and link state protocols. EIGRP –
Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol is one of those hybrid routing protocols.
Question 68
On which type of device is every port in the same collision domain?
On which type of device is every port in the same collision domain?
A. a router
B. a Layer 2 switch
C. a hub
Answer: C
Explanation:
Collision domainA collision domain is, as the name implies, a part of a network where packet collisions can occur. A collision occurs when two devices send a packet
at the same time on the shared network segment. The packets collide and both devices must send the packets again, which reduces network efficiency. Collisions are
often in a hub environment, because each port on a hub is in the same collision domain. By contrast, each port on a bridge, a switch or a router is in a separate
collision domain.
Question 69
Which portion of the packet does if replace?
When a router makes a routing decision for a packet that is received from one network and destined to another, which portion of the packet does if replace?
A. Layer 2 frame header and trailer
B. Layer 3 IP address
C. Layer 5 session
D. Layer 4 protocol
Answer: A
Explanation:
Router Switching Function (1.2.1.1)A primary function of a router is to forward packets toward their destination. This is accomplished by using a switching function,
which is the process used by a router to accept a packet on one interface and forward it out of another interface. A key responsibility of the switching function is to
encapsulate packets in the appropriate data link frame type for the outgoing data link.
NOTE:
In this context, the term “switching” literally means moving packets from source to destination and should not be confused with the function of a Layer 2 switch.
After the router has determined the exit interface using the path determination function, the router must encapsulate the packet into the data link frame of the
outgoing interface. What does a router do with a packet received from one network and destined for another network? The router performs the following three major
steps:
Step 1. De-encapsulates the Layer 3 packet by removing the Layer 2 frame header and trailer.
Step 2. Examines the destination IP address of the IP packet to find the best path in the routing table.
Step 3. If the router finds a path to the destination, it encapsulates the Layer 3 packet into a new Layer 2 frame and forwards the frame out the exit interface.
Question 70
Which component of a routing table entry represents the subnet mask?
Which component of a routing table entry represents the subnet mask?
A. routing protocol code
B. prefix
C. metric
D. network mask
Answer: D
Explanation:
IP Routing Table Entry TypesAn entry in the IP routing table contains the following information in the order presented:
Network ID. The network ID or destination corresponding to the route. The network ID can be class-based, subnet, or supernet network ID, or an IP address for a
host route. Network Mask.
The mask that is used to match a destination IP address to the network ID.
Next Hop. The IP address of the next hop.
Interface. An indication of which network interface is used to forward the IP packet. Metric.
A number used to indicate the cost of the route so the best route among possible multiple routes to the same destination can be selected. A common use of the metric
is to indicate the number of hops (routers crossed) to the network ID. Routing table entries can be used to store the following types of routes:
Directly Attached Network IDs. Routes for network IDs that are directly attached. For directly attached networks, the Next Hop field can be blank or contain the IP
address of the interface on that network.
Remote Network IDs. Routes for network IDs that are not directly attached but are available across other routers. For remote networks, the Next Hop field is the IP
address of a local router in between the forwarding node and the remote network. Host Routes. A route to a specific IP address. Host routes allow routing to occur
on a per- IP address basis. For host routes, the network ID is the IP address of the specified host and the network mask is 255.255.255.255.
Default Route. The default route is designed to be used when a more specific network ID or host route is not found. The default route network ID is 0.0.0.0 with the
network mask of 0.0.0.0.
Question 71
Under which circumstance should a network administrator implement one-way NAT?
Under which circumstance should a network administrator implement one-way NAT?
A. when the network must route UDP traffic
B. when traffic that originates outside the network must be routed to internal hosts
C. when traffic that originates inside the network must be routed to internal hosts
D. when the network has few public IP addresses and many private IP addresses require outside access
Answer: B
Explanation:
NAT operation is typically transparent to both the internal and external hosts. Typically the internal host is aware of the true IP address and TCP or UDP port of the
external host. Typically the NAT device may function as the default gateway for the internal host. However the external host is only aware of the public IP address for
the NAT device and the particular port being used to communicate on behalf of a specific internal host.
NAT and TCP/UDP
“Pure NAT”, operating on IP alone, may or may not correctly parse protocols that are totally concerned with IP information, such as ICMP, depending on whether
the payload is interpreted by a host on the “inside” or “outside” of translation. As soon as the protocol stack is traversed, even with such basic protocols as TCP and
UDP, the protocols will break unless NAT takes action beyond the network layer. IP packets have a checksum in each packet header, which provides error detection
only for the header. IP datagrams may become fragmented and it is necessary for a NAT to reassemble these fragments to allow correct recalculation of higher-level
checksums and correct tracking of which packets belong to which connection. The major transport layer protocols, TCP and UDP, have a checksum that covers all
the data they carry, as well as the TCP/UDP header, plus a “pseudo-header” that contains the source and destination IP addresses of the packet carrying the
TCP/UDP header.
For an originating NAT to pass TCP or UDP successfully, it must recompute the TCP/UDP header checksum based on the translated IP addresses, not the original
ones, and put that checksum into the TCP/UDP header of the first packet of the fragmented set of packets. The receiving NAT must recompute the IP checksum on
every packet it passes to the destination host, and also recognize and recompute the TCP/UDP header using the retranslated addresses and pseudo-header. This is
not a completely solved problem. One solution is for the receiving NAT to reassemble the entire segment and then recompute a checksum calculated across all
packets.
The originating host may perform Maximum transmission unit (MTU) path discovery to determine the packet size that can be transmitted without fragmentation, and
then set the don’t fragment (DF) bit in the appropriate packet header field. Of course, this is only a one-way solution, because the responding host can send packets
of any size, which may be fragmented before reaching the NAT.
Question 72
Which statement about static routes is true?
Which statement about static routes is true?
A. The source interface can be configured to make routing decisions.
B. A subnet mask is entered for the next-hop address.
C. The subnet mask is 255.255 255.0 by default
D. The exit interface can be specified to indicate where the packets will be routed.
Answer: D
Explanation:
Static routing can be used to define an exit point from a router when no other routes are available or necessary. This is called a default route.
Question 73
Which routing protocol has the smallest default administrative distance?
Which routing protocol has the smallest default administrative distance?
A. IBGP
B. OSPF
C. IS-IS
D. EIGRP
E. RIP
Answer: D
Explanation:
http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/ip/border-gateway-protocol-bgp/15986-admin-distance.html
Default Distance Value TableThis table lists the administrative distance default values of the protocols that Cisco supports:
Route Source
Default Distance Values
Connected interface
Static route
Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) summary route External Border Gateway
Protocol (BGP)
Internal EIGRP
IGRP
OSPF
Intermediate System-to-Intermediate System (IS-IS) Routing Information Protocol (RIP)
Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP)
On Demand Routing (ODR)
External EIGRP
Internal BGP
Unknown*
Question 74
Which NTP command configures the local device as an NTP reference clock source?
Which NTP command configures the local device as an NTP reference clock source?
A. ntp peer
B. ntp broadcast
C. ntp master
D. ntp server
Answer: D
Question 75
Which conclusion can you draw about the environment?
You enter the show ipv6 route command on an OSPF device and the device displays a route.
Which conclusion can you draw about the environment?
A. OSPF is distributing IPv6 routes to BGP.
B. The router is designated as an ABR.
C. The router is designated as totally stubby.
D. OSPFv3 is in use.
Answer: A
Question 76
Which three options are the HSRP states for a router?
Which three options are the HSRP states for a router? (Choose three.)
A. initialize
B. learn
C. secondary
D. listen
E. speak
F. primary
Answer: BDE
Explanation:
HSRP States
Question 77
Which Cisco platform can verify ACLs?
Which Cisco platform can verify ACLs?
A. Cisco Prime Infrastructure
B. Cisco Wireless LAN Controller
C. Cisco APIC-EM
D. Cisco IOS-XE
Answer: B
Question 78
Which statement about MPLS is true?
Which statement about MPLS is true?
A. It operates in Layer 1.
B. It operates between Layer 2 and Layer 3.
C. It operates in Layer 3.
D. it operates in Layer 2.
Answer: B
Explanation:
MPLS belongs to the family of packet-switched networks. MPLS operates at a layer that is generally considered to lie between traditional definitions of OSI Layer 2
(data link layer) and Layer 3 (network layer), and thus is often referred to as a layer 2.5 protocol.
Question 79
Which two switch states are valid for 802.1w?
Which two switch states are valid for 802.1w? (Choose two.)
A. listening
B. backup
C. disabled
D. learning
E. discarding
Answer: DE
Explanation:
Port States
There are only three port states left in RSTP that correspond to the three possible operational states. The 802.1D disabled, blocking, and listening states are merged
into a unique 802.1w discarding state.
Question 80
Which statement about named ACLs is true?
Which statement about named ACLs is true?
A. They support standard and extended ACLs.
B. They are used to filter usernames and passwords for Telnet and SSH.
C. They are used to filter Layer 7 traffic.
D. They support standard ACLs only.
E. They are used to rate limit traffic destined to targeted networks.
Answer: A
Explanation:
Named Access Control Lists (ACLs) allows standard and extended ACLs to be given names instead of numbers. Unlike in numbered Access Control Lists (ACLs), we
can edit Named Access Control Lists. Another benefit of using named access configuration mode is that you can add new statements to the access list, and insert them
wherever you like. With the legacy syntax, you must delete the entire access list before reapplying it using the updated rules.
Question 81
What is the first step you perform to configure an SNMPv3 user?
What is the first step you perform to configure an SNMPv3 user?
A. Configure server traps.
B. Configure the server group.
C. Configure the server host.
D. Configure the remote engine ID.
Answer: B
Explanation:
The first task in configuring SNMPv3 is to define a view. To simplify things, we’ll create a view that allows access to the entire internet subtree:
router(config)#snmp-server view readview internet included This command creates a view called readview. If you want to limit the view to the system tree, for
example, replace internet with system. The included keyword states that the specified tree should be included in the view; use excluded if you wanted to exclude a
certain subtree.
Next, create a group that uses the new view. The following command creates a group called readonly ; v3 means that SNMPv3 should be used. The auth keyword
specifies that the entity should authenticate packets without encrypting them; read readview says that the view named readview should be used whenever members of
the readonly group access the router.
router(config)#snmp-server group readonly v3 auth read readview
Question 82
Which option is a benefit of switch stacking?
Which option is a benefit of switch stacking?
A. It provides redundancy with no impact on resource usage.
B. It simplifies adding and removing hosts.
C. It supports better performance of high-needs applications.
D. It provides higher port density with better resource usage.
Answer: D
Explanation:
A stackable switch is a network switch that is fully functional operating standalone but which can also be set up to operate together with one or more other network
switches, with this group of switches showing the characteristics of a single switch but having the port capacity of the sum of the combined switches.
Question 83
Which statement about switch access ports is true?
Which statement about switch access ports is true?
A. They drop packets with 802.1Q tags.
B. A VLAN must be assigned to an access port before it is created.
C. They can receive traffic from more than one VLAN with no voice support
D. By default, they carry traffic for VLAN 10.
Answer: A
Explanation:
“If an access port receives a packet with an 802.1Q tag in the header other than the access VLAN value, that port drops the packet without learning its MAC source
address.”
Question 85
Which type of topology is required by DMVPN?
Which type of topology is required by DMVPN?
A. ring
B. full mesh
C. hub-and-spoke
D. partial mesh
Answer: C
Question 86
Which option describes how a switch in rapid PVST+ mode responds to a topology change?
Which option describes how a switch in rapid PVST+ mode responds to a topology change?
A. It immediately deletes dynamic MAC addresses that were learned by all ports on the switch.
B. It sets a timer to delete all MAC addresses that were learned dynamically by ports in the same
STP instance.
C. It sets a timer to delete dynamic MAC addresses that were learned by all ports on the switch.
D. It immediately deletes all MAC addresses that were learned dynamically by ports in the same
STP instance.
Answer: D
Explanation:
Rapid PVST+This spanning-tree mode is the same as PVST+ except that is uses a rapid convergence based on the IEEE 802.1w standard. To provide rapid
convergence, the rapid PVST+ immediately deletes dynamically learned MAC address entries on a per-port basis upon receiving a topology change. By contrast,
PVST+ uses a short aging time for dynamically learned MAC address entries.
The rapid PVST+ uses the same configuration as PVST+ (except where noted), and the switch needs only minimal extra configuration. The benefit of rapid PVST+ is
that you can migrate a large PVST+ install base to rapid PVST+ without having to learn the complexities of the MSTP configuration and without having to
reprovision your network. In rapid-PVST+ mode, each VLAN runs its own spanning-tree instance up to the maximum supported.
Question 87
Which statement about the IP SLAs ICMP Echo operation is true?
Which statement about the IP SLAs ICMP Echo operation is true?
A. The frequency of the operation .s specified in milliseconds.
B. It is used to identify the best source interface from which to send traffic.
C. It is configured in enable mode.
D. It is used to determine the frequency of ICMP packets.
Answer: D
Explanation:
This module describes how to configure an IP Service Level Agreements (SLAs) Internet Control
Message Protocol (ICMP) Echo operation to monitor end-to-end response time between a Cisco router and devices using IPv4 or IPv6. ICMP Echo is useful for
troubleshooting network connectivity issues. This module also demonstrates how the results of the ICMP Echo operation can be displayed and analyzed to determine
how the network IP connections are performing.
ICMP Echo Operation
The ICMP Echo operation measures end-to-end response time between a Cisco router and any devices using IP. Response time is computed by measuring the time
taken between sending an ICMP Echo request message to the destination and receiving an ICMP Echo reply.
In the figure below ping is used by the ICMP Echo operation to measure the response time between the source IP SLAs device and the destination IP device. Many
customers use IP SLAs ICMP-based operations, in-house ping testing, or ping-based dedicated probes for response time measurements.
The IP SLAs ICMP Echo operation conforms to the same IETF specifications for ICMP ping testing and the two methods result in the same response times.
Configuring a Basic ICMP Echo Operation on the Source Device SUMMARY STEPS
1. enable
2. configure terminal
3. ip sla operation-number
4. icmp-echo {destination-ip-address | destination-hostname} [source-ip {ip-address | hostname} | source-interface interface-name]
5. frequency seconds 6. end
Question 88
Which statement about slow inter VLAN forwarding is true?
Which statement about slow inter VLAN forwarding is true?
A. The VLAN is experiencing slowness in the point-to-point collisionless connection.
B. The VLANs are experiencing slowness because multiple devices are connected to the same hub.
C. The local VLAN is working normally, but traffic to the alternate VLAN is forwarded slower than expected.
D. The entire VLAN is experiencing slowness.
E. The VLANs are experiencing slowness due to a duplex mismatch.
Answer: E
Explanation:
Common Causes of Slow IntraVLAN and InterVLAN Connectivity The symptoms of slow connectivity on a VLAN can be caused by multiple factors on different
network layers. Commonly the network speed issue may be occurring on a lower level, but symptoms can be observed on a higher level as the problem masks itself
under the term “slow VLAN”. To clarify, this document defines the following new terms: “slow collision domain”, “slow broadcast domain” (in other words, slow
VLAN), and “slow interVLAN forwarding”. These are defined in the section Three Categories of Causes, below.
In the following scenario (illustrated in the network diagram below), there is a Layer 3 (L3) switch performing interVLAN routing between the server and client
VLANs. In this failure scenario, one server is connected to a switch, and the port duplex mode is configured half- duplex on the server side and full-duplex on the
switch side. This misconfiguration results in a packet loss and slowness, with increased packet loss when higher traffic rates occur on the link where the server is
connected. For the clients who communicate with this server, the problem looks like slow interVLAN forwarding because they do not have a problem communicating
to other devices or clients on the same VLAN. The problem occurs only when communicating to the server on a different VLAN. Thus, the problem occurred on a
single collision domain, but is seen as slow interVLAN forwarding.
Three Categories of Causes
The causes of slowness can be divided into three categories, as follows:
Slow Collision Domain Connectivity
Collision domain is defined as connected devices configured in a half-duplex port configuration, connected to each other or a hub. If a device is connected to a
switch port and full-duplex mode is configured, such a point-to-point connection is collisionless. Slowness on such a segment still can occur for different reasons.
Slow Broadcast Domain Connectivity (Slow VLAN)
Slow broadcast domain connectivity occurs when the whole VLAN (that is, all devices on the same VLAN) experiences slowness.
Slow InterVLAN Connectivity (Slow Forwarding Between VLANs) Slow interVLAN connectivity (slow forwarding between VLANs) occurs when there is no slowness
on the local VLAN, but traffic needs to be forwarded to an alternate VLAN, and it is not forwarded at the expected rate.
Causes for Network Slowness
Packet Loss
In most cases, a network is considered slow when higher-layer protocols (applications) require extended time to complete an operation that typically runs faster.
That slowness is caused by the loss of some packets on the network, which causes higher-level protocols like TCP or applications to time out and initiate
retransmission.
Hardware Forwarding Issues
With another type of slowness, caused by network equipment, forwarding (whether Layer 2 [L2] or L3) is performed slowly. This is due to a deviation from normal
(designed) operation and switching to slow path forwarding. An example of this is when Multilayer Switching (MLS) on the switch forwards L3 packets between
VLANs in the hardware, but due to misconfiguration, MLS is not functioning properly and forwarding is done by the router in the software (which drops the
interVLAN forwarding rate significantly).
Question 89
Which configuration can you apply to enable encapsulation on a subinterface?
Which configuration can you apply to enable encapsulation on a subinterface?
A. interface FastEthernet 0/0
encapsulation dot1Q 30
ip address 10.1.1.30 255.255.255.0
B. interface FastEthernet 0/0.30
ip address 10.1.1.30 255.255.255.0
C. interface FastEthernet 0/0.30
description subinterface vlan 30
D. interface FastEthernet 0/0.30
encapsulation dot1Q 30
ip address 10.1.1.30 255.255.255.0
Answer: D
Question 90
Which EIGRP for IPv6 command can you enter to view the link-local addresses of the neighbors of a device?
Which EIGRP for IPv6 command can you enter to view the link-local addresses of the neighbors of a device?
A. show ipv6 eigrp 20 interfaces
B. show ipv6 route eigrp
C. show ipv6 eigrp neighbors
D. show ip eigrp traffic
Answer: C
Question 91
Which two pieces of information are provided by the show controllers serial 0 command?
Which two pieces of information are provided by the show controllers serial 0 command? (Choose two.)
A. the type of cable that is connected to the interface.
B. The uptime of the interface
C. the status of the physical layer of the interface
D. the full configuration of the interface
E. the interface’s duplex settings
Answer: AC
Explanation:
The show controller command provides hardware-related information useful to troubleshoot and diagnose issues with Cisco router interfaces. The Cisco 12000
Series uses a distributed architecture with a central command-line interface (CLI) at the Gigabit Route Processor (GRP) and a local CLI at each line card.
Question 92
Which identification number is valid for an extended ACL?
Which identification number is valid for an extended ACL?
A. 1
B. 64
C. 99
D. 100
E. 299
F. 1099
Answer: D
Question 93
Which protocol authenticates connected devices before allowing them to access the LAN?
Which protocol authenticates connected devices before allowing them to access the LAN?
A. 802.1d
B. 802.11
C. 802.1w
D. 802.1x
Answer: D
Explanation:
802.1X authentication involves three parties: a supplicant, an authenticator, and an authentication server. The supplicant is a client device (such as a laptop) that
wishes to attach to the LAN/WLAN. The term ‘supplicant’ is also used interchangeably to refer to the software running on the client that provides credentials to the
authenticator. The authenticator is a network device, such as an Ethernet switch or wireless access point; and the authentication server is typically a host running
software supporting the RADIUS and EAP protocols.
The authenticator acts like a security guard to a protected network. The supplicant (i.e., client device) is not allowed access through the authenticator to the
protected side of the network until the supplicant’s identity has been validated and authorized. An analogy to this is providing a valid visa at the airport’s arrival
immigration before being allowed to enter the country. With 802.1X port-based authentication, the supplicant provides credentials, such as user name/password or
digital certificate, to the authenticator, and the authenticator forwards the credentials to the authentication server for verification. If the authentication server
determines the credentials are valid, the supplicant (client device) is allowed to access resources located on the protected side of the network.
Question 94
Which spanning-tree feature places a port immediately into a forwarding stated?
Which spanning-tree feature places a port immediately into a forwarding stated?
A. BPDU guard
B. PortFast
C. loop guard
D. UDLD
E. Uplink Fast
Answer: B
Explanation:
PortFast causes a switch or trunk port to enter the spanning tree forwarding state immediately, bypassing the listening and learning states. You can use PortFast on
switch or trunk ports that are connected to a single workstation, switch, or server to allow those devices to connect to the network immediately, instead of waiting for
the port to transition from the listening and learning states to the forwarding state.
Question 96
Which statement about QoS default behavior is true?
Which statement about QoS default behavior is true?
A. Ports are untrusted by default.
B. VoIP traffic is passed without being tagged.
C. Video traffic is passed with a well-known DSCP value of 46.
D. Packets are classified internally with an environment.
E. Packets that arrive with a tag are untagged at the edge of an administrative domain.
Answer: E
Explanation:
Frames received from users in the administratively-defined VLANs are classified or tagged for transmission to other devices. Based on rules that you define, a unique
identifier (the tag) is inserted in each frame header before it is forwarded. The tag is examined and understood by each device before any broadcasts or
transmissions to other switches, routers, or end stations.
When the frame reaches the last switch or router, the tag is removed before the frame is sent to the target end station. VLANs that are assigned on trunk or access
ports without identification or a tag are called native or untagged frames. For IEEE 802.1Q frames with tag information, the priority value from the header frame is
used. For native frames, the default priority of the input port is used. Each port on the switch has a single receive queue buffer (the ingress port) for incoming traffic.
When an untagged frame arrives, it is assigned the value of the port as its port default priority. You assign this value by using the CLI or CMS. A tagged frame
continues to use its assigned CoS value when it passes through the ingress port.
Question 97
What is the default VLAN on an access port?
What is the default VLAN on an access port?
A. 0
B. 1
C. 10
D. 1024
Answer: B
Question 98
Which type of interface can negotiate an IP address for a PPPoE client?
Which type of interface can negotiate an IP address for a PPPoE client?
A. Ethernet
B. dialer
C. serial
D. Frame Relay
Answer: B
Question 99
Which two components are used to identify a neighbor in a BGP configuration?
Which two components are used to identify a neighbor in a BGP configuration? (Choose two.)
A. autonomous system number
B. version number
C. router ID
D. subnet mask
E. IP address
Answer: AE
Explanation:
Use the show ip bgp neighbors (registered customers only) command to display information about the TCP and Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) connections and
verify if the BGP peer is established. The output of the show ip bgp neighbors command below shows the BGP state as ‘Established’, which indicates that the BGP
peer relationship has been established successfully.
R1-AGS# show ip bgp neighbors | include BGP
BGP neighbor is 10.10.10.2, remote AS 400, internal link BGP version 4, remote router ID 2.2.2.2
BGP state = Established, up for 00:04:20
BGP table version 1, neighbor version 1
R1-AGS#
The show ip bgp neighbors command has been used above with the modifier | include BGP. This makes the output more readable by filtering the the command output
and displaying the relevant parts only.
In addition, the show ip bgp summary (registered customers only) command can also be used to display the status of all BGP connections, as shown below.
R1-AGS(9)# show ip bgp summary
BGP router identifier 10.1.1.2, local AS number 400 BGP table version is 1, main routing table version 1
Neighbor V AS MsgRcvd MsgSent TblVer InQ OutQ Up/Down State/PfxRcd 10.10.10.2 4 400 3 3
1 0 0 00:00:26 0
Question 100
How can you disable DTP on a switch port?
How can you disable DTP on a switch port?
A. Configure the switch port as a trunk.
B. Add an interface on the switch to a channel group.
C. Change the operational mode to static access.
D. Change the administrative mode to access.
Answer: A
Question 101
Which protocol supports sharing the VLAN configuration between two or more switches?
Which protocol supports sharing the VLAN configuration between two or more switches?
A. multicast
B. STP
C. VTP
D. split-horizon
Answer: C
Explanation:
“VTP allows a network manager to configure a switch so that it will propagate VLAN configurations to other switches in the network” VTP minimizes
misconfigurations and configuration inconsistencies that can cause problems, such as duplicate VLAN names or incorrect VLAN-type specifications. VTP helps you
simplify management of the VLAN database across multiple switches. VTP is a Cisco-proprietary protocol and is available on most of the Cisco switches.
Question 102
Which option is the benefit of implementing an intelligent DNS for a cloud computing solution?
Which option is the benefit of implementing an intelligent DNS for a cloud computing solution?
A. It reduces the need for a backup data center.
B. It can redirect user requests to locations that are using fewer network resources.
C. It enables the ISP to maintain DNS records automatically.
D. It eliminates the need for a GSS.
Answer: B
Question 103
Which process is associated with spanning-tree convergence?
Which process is associated with spanning-tree convergence?
A. determining the path cost
B. electing designated ports
C. learning the sender bridge ID
D. assigning the port ID
Answer: B
Explanation:
Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) convergence (Layer 2 convergence) happens when bridges and switches have transitioned to either the forwarding or blocking state.
When layer 2 is converged, Root Switch is elected and Root Ports, Designated Ports and Non-Designated ports in all switches are selected. At Converged condition,
the Root Ports and the Designated ports are in forwarding state, and all other ports are in blocking state.
Question 104
Which part of the PPPoE server configuration contains the information used to assign an IP address to a PPPoE client?
Which part of the PPPoE server configuration contains the information used to assign an IP address to a PPPoE client?
A. virtual-template interface
B. DHCP
C. dialer interface
D. AAA authentication
Answer: C
Explanation:
PPPoE is configured as a point to point connection between two Ethernet ports. As a tunneling protocol, PPPoE is used as an effective foundation for the transport
of IP packets at the network layer. IP is overlaid over a PPP connection and uses PPP as a virtual dial up connection between points on the network. From the user’s
perspective, a PPPoE session is initiated by using connection software on the client machine or router. PPPoE session initiation involves the identification of the
Media Access Control (MAC) address of the remote device. This process, also known as PPPoE discovery
Question 105
What are two drawbacks of implementing a link-state routing protocol?
What are two drawbacks of implementing a link-state routing protocol? (Choose two.)
A. the sequencing and acknowledgment of link-state packets
B. the high volume of link-state advertisements in a converged network
C. the requirement for a hierarchical IP addressing scheme for optimal functionality
D. the high demand on router resources to run the link-state routing algorithm
E. the large size of the topology table listing all advertised routes in the converged network
Answer: CD
Question 106
Which component of the Cisco SDN solution serves as the centralized management system?
Which component of the Cisco SDN solution serves as the centralized management system?
A. Cisco OpenDaylight
B. Cisco ACI
C. Cisco APIC
D. Cisco IWAN
Answer: B
Explanation:
Cisco ACI is a comprehensive SDN architecture. This policy-based automation solution supports a business-relevant application policy language, greater scalability
through a distributed enforcement system, and greater network visibility. These benefits are achieved through the integration of physical and virtual environments
under one policy model for networks, servers, storage, services, and security.
Question 107
Which option describes the purpose of traffic policing?
Which option describes the purpose of traffic policing?
A. It prioritizes routing protocol traffic.
B. It remarks traffic that is below the CIR
C. It drops traffic that exceeds the CIR.
D. It queues and then transmits traffic that exceeds the CIR.
Answer: C
Explanation:
Traffic policing allows you to control the maximum rate of traffic transmitted or received on an interface. Traffic policing is often configured on interfaces at the
edge of a network to limit traffic into or out of the network. In most Traffic Policing configurations, traffic that falls within the rate parameters is transmitted,
whereas traffic that exceeds the parameters is dropped or transmitted with a different priority.
Question 108
Which IEEE standard does PVST+ use to tunnel information?
Which IEEE standard does PVST+ use to tunnel information?
A. 802.1x
B. 802 1q
C. 802.1w
D. 802.1s
Answer: B
Question 109
Which version of SNMP first allowed user-based access?
Which version of SNMP first allowed user-based access?
A. SNMPv3 with RBAC
B. SNMPv3
C. SNMPv1
D. SNMPv2
Answer: B
Question 110
What is a difference between TACACS+ and RADIUS in AAA?
What is a difference between TACACS+ and RADIUS in AAA?
A. Only TACACS+ allows for separate authentication.
B. Only RADIUS encrypts the entire access-request packet.
C. Only RADIUS uses TCP.
D. Only TACACS+ couples authentication and authorization.
Answer: A
Explanation: Authentication and Authorization
RADIUS combines authentication and authorization. The access-accept packets sent by the RADIUS server to the client contain authorization information. This
makes it difficult to decouple authentication and authorization.
TACACS+ uses the AAA architecture, which separates AAA. This allows separate authentication solutions that can still use TACACS+ for authorization and
accounting. For example, with TACACS+, it is possible to use Kerberos authentication and TACACS+ authorization and accounting. After a NAS authenticates on a
Kerberos server, it requests authorization information from a TACACS+ server without having to re-authenticate. The NAS informs the TACACS+ server that it has
successfully authenticated on a Kerberos server, and the server then provides authorization information. During a session, if additional authorization checking is
needed, the access server checks with a TACACS+ server to determine if the user is granted permission to use a particular command. This provides greater control
over the commands that can be executed on the access server while decoupling from the authentication mechanism.
Question 111
Which two circumstances can cause collision domain issues on VLAN domain?
Which two circumstances can cause collision domain issues on VLAN domain? (Choose two.)
A. duplex mismatches on Ethernet segments in the same VLAN
B. multiple errors on switchport interfaces
C. congestion on the switch inband path
D. a failing NIC in an end device
E. an overloaded shared segment
Answer: AC
Explanation:
Collision Domains
A collision domain is an area of a single LAN where end stations contend for access to the network because all end stations are connected to a shared physical
medium. If two connected devices transmit onto the media at the same time, a collision occurs. When a collision occurs, a JAM signal is sent on the network,
indicating that a collision has occurred and that devices should ignore any fragmented data associated with the collision. Both sending devices back off sending their
data for a random amount and then try again if the medium is free for transmission.
Therefore, collisions effectively delay transmission of data, lowering the effective throughput available to a device. The more devices that are attached to a collision
domain, the greater the chances of collisions; this results in lower bandwidth and performance for each device attached to the collision domain. Bridges and switches
terminate the physical signal path of a collision domain, allowing you to segment separate collision domains, breaking them up into multiple smaller pieces to
provide more bandwidth per user within the new collision domains formed.
Question 112
Which feature can you use to monitor traffic on a switch by replicating it to another port or ports on the same switch?
Which feature can you use to monitor traffic on a switch by replicating it to another port or ports on the same switch?
A. copy run start
B. traceroute
C. the ICMP Echo IP SLA
D. SPAN
Answer: D
Explanation:
A source port, also called a monitored port, is a switched or routed port that you monitor for network traffic analysis. In a single local SPAN session or RSPAN
source session, you can monitor source port traffic, such as received (Rx), transmitted (Tx), or bidirectional (both). The switch supports any number of source ports
(up to the maximum number of available ports on the switch) and any number of source VLANs.
A source port has these characteristics:
It can be any port type, such as EtherChannel, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, and so forth.
It can be monitored in multiple SPAN sessions.
It cannot be a destination port.
Each source port can be configured with a direction (ingress, egress, or both) to monitor. For
EtherChannel sources, the monitored direction applies to all physical ports in the group.
Source ports can be in the same or different VLANs. For VLAN SPAN sources, all active ports in the source VLAN are included as source ports.
Question 113
Which statement about DTP is true?
Which statement about DTP is true?
A. It uses the native VLAN.
B. It negotiates a trunk link after VTP has been configured.
C. It uses desirable mode by default.
D. It sends data on VLAN 1.
Answer: D
Explanation:
Disabling Dynamic Trunking Protocol (DTP)
Cisco’s Dynamic Trunking Protocol can facilitate the automatic creation of trunks between two switches. When two connected ports are configured in dynamic mode,
and at least one of the ports is configured as desirable, the two switches will negotiate the formation of a trunk across the link. DTP isn’t to be confused with VLAN
Trunking Protocol (VTP), although the VTP domain does come into play.
DTP on the wire is pretty simple, essentially only advertising the VTP domain, the status of the interface, and it’s DTP type. These packets are transmitted in the
native (or access) VLAN every 60 seconds both natively and with ISL encapsulation (tagged as VLAN 1) when DTP is enabled.
Question 114
Which command verifies that IP routing is enabled on interfaces and the local VLANs are up?
While you were troubleshooting a connection issue, a ping from one VLAN to another VLAN on the same switch failed. Which command verifies that IP routing is
enabled on interfaces and the local VLANs are up?
A. show ip interface brief
B. show ip nat statistics
C. show ip statistics
D. show ip route
Answer: A
Explanation:
Initiate a ping from an end device in one VLAN to the interface VLAN on another VLAN in order to verify that the switch routes between VLANs. In this example,
ping from VLAN 2 (10.1.2.1) to Interface VLAN 3 (10.1.3.1) or Interface VLAN 10 (10.1.10.1). If the ping fails, verify that IP routing is enabled and that the VLAN
interfaces status is up with the show ip interface brief command.
Question 123
Which destination MAC address does host Z use to transmit packets?
If host Z needs to send data through router R1 to a storage server, which destination MAC address does host Z use to transmit packets?
A. the host Z MAC address
B. the MAC address of the interface on R1 that connects to the storage server
C. the MAC address of the interface on R1 that connects to host Z
D. the MAC address of the storage server interface
Answer: C
Question 124
What is the best way to verify that a host has a path to other hosts in different networks?
What is the best way to verify that a host has a path to other hosts in different networks?
A. Ping the loopback address.
B. Ping the default gateway.
C. Ping the local interface address.
D. Ping the remote network.
Answer: D
Explanation:
Ping is a tool that helps to verify IP-level connectivity; PathPing is a tool that detects packet loss over multiple-hop trips. When troubleshooting, the ping command is
used to send an ICMP Echo Request to a target host name or IP address. Use Ping whenever you want to verify that a host computer can send IP packets to a
destination host. You can also use the Ping tool to isolate network hardware problems and incompatible configurations. If you call ipconfig /all and receive a
response, there is no need to ping the loopback address and your own IP address — Ipconfig has already done so in order to generate the report.
It is best to verify that a route exists between the local computer and a network host by first using ping and the IP address of the network host to which you want to
connect. The command syntax is:
ping < IP address >
Perform the following steps when using Ping:
Ping the loopback address to verify that TCP/IP is installed and configured correctly on the local computer.
ping 127.0.0.1
If the loopback step fails, the IP stack is not responding. This might be because the TCP drivers are corrupted, the network adapter might not be working, or another
service is interfering with IP.
Ping the IP address of the local computer to verify that it was added to the network correctly. Note that if the routing table is correct, this simply forwards the packet
to the loopback address of 127.0.0.1.
ping < IP address of local host >
Ping the IP address of the default gateway to verify that the default gateway is functioning and that you can communicate with a local host on the local network.
Ping the IP address of a remote host to verify that you can communicate through a router.
ping < IP address of remote host >
Ping the host name of a remote host to verify that you can resolve a remote host name.
ping < Host name of remote host >
Run a PathPing analysis to a remote host to verify that the routers on the way to the destination are operating correctly.
pathping < IP address of remote host >
Question 125
Which option describes a difference between EIGRP for IPv4 and IPv6?
Which option describes a difference between EIGRP for IPv4 and IPv6?
A. Only EIGRP for IPv6 advertises all connected networks.
B. Only EIGRP for IPv6 requires a router ID to be configured under the routing process-
C. AS numbers are configured in EIGRP but not in EIGRPv3.
D. Only EIGRP for IPv6 is enabled in the global configuration mode.
Answer: B
Explanation:
Router ID – Both EIGRP for IPv4 and EIGRP for IPv6 use a 32-bit number for the EIGRP router
ID. The 32-bit router ID is represented in dotted-decimal notation and is commonly referred to as an IPv4 address. If the EIGRP for IPv6 router has not been
configured with an IPv4 address, the eigrp router-id command must be used to configure a 32-bit router ID. The process for determining the router ID is the same for
both EIGRP for IPv4 and IPv6.
Question 127
The enable secret command is used to secure access to which CLI mode?
The enable secret command is used to secure access to which CLI mode?
A. global configuration mode
B. privileged EXEC mode
C. user EXEC mode
D. auxiliary setup mode
Answer: B
Question 128
The enable secret command is used to secure access to which CLI mode?
The enable secret command is used to secure access to which CLI mode?
A. global configuration mode
B. privileged EXEC mode
C. user EXEC mode
D. auxiliary setup mode
Answer: B
Question 129
Which command sets and automatically encrypts the privileged enable mode password?
Which command sets and automatically encrypts the privileged enable mode password?
A. Enable password c1sc0
B. Secret enable c1sc0
C. Password enable c1sc0
D. Enable secret c1sc0
Answer: D 
Question 131
What are three characteristics of satellite Internet connections?
What are three characteristics of satellite Internet connections? (Choose three.)
A. Their upload speed is about 10 percent of their download speed.
B. They are frequently used by rural users without access to other high-speed connections.
C. They are usually at least 10 times faster than analog modem connections.
D. They are usually faster than cable and DSL connections.
E. They require a WiMax tower within 30 miles of the user location.
F. They use radio waves to communicate with cellular phone towers.
Answer: ABC
Question 132
Which two commands can you enter to verify that a configured NetFlow data export is operational?
Which two commands can you enter to verify that a configured NetFlow data export is operational? (Choose two.)
A. show ip flow export
B. show ip cache flow
C. ip flow ingress
D. ip flow egress
E. interface ethernet 0/0
F. ip flow-export destination
Answer: AB
Question 133
What are two requirements for an HSRP group?
What are two requirements for an HSRP group? (Choose two.)
A. exactly one active router
B. one or more standby routers
C. one or more backup virtual routers
D. exactly one standby active router
E. exactly one backup virtual router
Answer: AB
Question 134
What is the first step in the NAT configuration process?
What is the first step in the NAT configuration process?
A. Define inside and outside interfaces.
B. Define public and private IP addresses.
C. Define IP address pools.
D. Define global and local interfaces.
Answer: A
Question 135
Which NAT function can map multiple inside addresses to a single outside address?
Which NAT function can map multiple inside addresses to a single outside address?
A. PAT
B. SFTP
C. RARP
D. ARP
E. TFTP
Answer: A
Question 136
Which three statements about link-state routing are true?
Which three statements about link-state routing are true? (Choose three.)
A. Routes are updated when a change in topology occurs.
B. Updates are sent to a multicast address by default.
C. OSPF is a link-state protocol.
D. Updates are sent to a broadcast address.
E. RIP is a link-state protocol.
F. It uses split horizon.
Answer: ABC
Question 137
Which command can you enter to verify the status of the interface and determine whether fast switching is enabled?
After you configure the Loopback0 interface, which command can you enter to verify the status of the interface and determine whether fast switching is enabled?
A. Router#show ip interface loopback 0
B. Router#show run
C. Router#show interface loopback 0
D. Router#show ip interface brief
Answer: A
Question 138
Which three statements about IPv6 prefixes are true?
Which three statements about IPv6 prefixes are true? (Choose three.)
A. FF00:/8 is used for IPv6 multicast.
B. FE80::/10 is used for link-local unicast.
C. FC00::/7 is used in private networks.
D. 2001::1/127 is used for loopback addresses.
E. FE80::/8 is used for link-local unicast.
F. FEC0::/10 is used for IPv6 broadcast.
Answer: ABC
Question 139
Which two statements about IPv6 router advertisement messages are true?
Which two statements about IPv6 router advertisement messages are true? (Choose two.)
A. They use ICMPv6 type 134.
B. The advertised prefix length must be 64 bits.
C. The advertised prefix length must be 48 bits.
D. They are sourced from the configured IPv6 interface address.
E. Their destination is always the link-local address of the neighboring node.
Answer: AB
Question 140
Which spanning-tree protocol rides on top of another spanning-tree protocol?
Which spanning-tree protocol rides on top of another spanning-tree protocol?
A. MSTP
B. RSTP
C. PVST+
D. Mono Spanning Tree
Answer: A
Question 141
Which command sequence can you enter to create VLAN 20 and assign it to an interface on a switch?
Which command sequence can you enter to create VLAN 20 and assign it to an interface on a switch?
A. Switch(config)#vlan 20
Switch(config)#Interface gig x/y
Switch(config-if)#switchport access vlan 20
B. Switch(config)#Interface gig x/y
Switch(config-if)#vlan 20
Switch(config-vlan)#switchport access vlan 20
C. Switch(config)#vlan 20
Switch(config)#Interface vlan 20
Switch(config-if)#switchport trunk native vlan 20
D. Switch(config)#vlan 20
Switch(config)#Interface vlan 20
Switch(config-if)#switchport access vlan 20
E. Switch(config)#vlan 20
Switch(config)#Interface vlan 20
Switch(config-if)#switchport trunk allowed vlan 20
Answer: A
Question 142
Which command can you execute to set the user inactivity timer to 10 seconds?
Which command can you execute to set the user inactivity timer to 10 seconds?
A. SW1(config-line)#exec-timeout 0 10
B. SW1(config-line)#exec-timeout 10
C. SW1(config-line)#absolute-timeout 0 10
D. SW1(config-line)#absolute-timeout 10
Answer: A
Question 143
What are two reasons that duplex mismatches can be difficult to diagnose?
What are two reasons that duplex mismatches can be difficult to diagnose? (Choose two.)
A. The interface displays a connected (up/up) state even when the duplex settings are mismatched.
B. The symptoms of a duplex mismatch may be intermittent.
C. Autonegotiation is disabled.
D. Full-duplex interfaces use CSMA/CD logic, so mismatches may be disguised by collisions.
E. 1-Gbps interfaces are full-duplex by default.
Answer: AB
Question 145
Which standards-based First Hop Redundancy Protocol is a Cisco supported alternative to Hot Standby Router Protocol?
Which standards-based First Hop Redundancy Protocol is a Cisco supported alternative to Hot Standby Router Protocol?
A. VRRP
B. GLBP
C. TFTP
D. DHCP
Answer: A
Question 146
Which command can you enter to display the hits counter for NAT traffic?
Which command can you enter to display the hits counter for NAT traffic?
A. show ip nat statistics
B. debug ip nat
C. show ip debug nat
D. clear ip nat statistics
Answer: A
Question 147
Which type of address is the public IP address of a NAT device?
Which type of address is the public IP address of a NAT device?
A. outside global
B. outside local
C. inside global
D. inside local
E. outside public
F. inside public
Answer: C
Question 148
Which three statements about static routing are true?
Which three statements about static routing are true? (Choose three.)
A. It uses consistent route determination.
B. It is best used for small-scale deployments.
C. Routing is disrupted when links fail.
D. It requires more resources than other routing methods.
E. It is best used for large-scale deployments.
F. Routers can use update messages to reroute when links fail.
Answer: ABC
Question 149
Which three commands can you use to set a router boot image?
Which three commands can you use to set a router boot image? (Choose three.)
A. Router(config)# boot system flash c4500-p-mz.121-20.bin
B. Router(config)# boot system tftp c7300-js-mz.122-33.SB8a.bin
C. Router(config)#boot system rom c7301-advipservicesk9-mz.124-24.T4.bin
D. Router> boot flash:c180x-adventerprisek9-mz-124-6T.bin
E. Router(config)#boot flash:c180x-adventerprisek9-mz-124-6T.bin
F. Router(config)#boot bootldr bootflash:c4500-jk9s-mz.122-23f.bin
Answer: ABC
Question 150
Which command can you enter to configure a local username with an encrypted password and EXEC mode user privileges?
Which command can you enter to configure a local username with an encrypted password and EXEC mode user privileges?
A. Router(config)#username jdone privilege 1 password 7 08314D5D1A48
B. Router(config)#username jdone privilege 1 password 7 PASSWORD1
C. Router(config)#username jdone privilege 15 password 0 08314D5D1A48
D. Router(config)#username jdone privilege 15 password 0 PASSWORD1
Answer: A
Question 151
Which two features can dynamically assign IPv6 addresses?
Which two features can dynamically assign IPv6 addresses? (Choose two.)
A. IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration
B. DHCP
C. NHRP
D. IPv6 stateful autoconfiguration
E. ISATAP tunneling
Answer: AB
Question 152
Which two statements about IPv6 and routing protocols are true?
Which two statements about IPv6 and routing protocols are true? (Choose two.)
A. Link-local addresses are used to form routing adjacencies.
B. OSPFv3 was developed to support IPv6 routing.
C. EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP are the only routing protocols that support IPv6.
D. Loopback addresses are used to form routing adjacencies.
E. EIGRPv3 was developed to support IPv6 routing.
Answer: AB
Question 153
Which tertiary switch can take over?
If primary and secondary root switches with priority 16384 both experience catastrophic losses, which tertiary switch can take over?
A. a switch with priority 20480
B. a switch with priority 8192
C. a switch with priority 4096
D. a switch with priority 12288
Answer: A
Question 154
Which command can you enter to view the ports that are assigned to VLAN 20?
Which command can you enter to view the ports that are assigned to VLAN 20?
A. Switch#show vlan id 20
B. Switch#show ip interface brief
C. Switch#show interface vlan 20
D. Switch#show ip interface vlan 20
Answer: A
Question 155
Which three characteristics are representative of a link-state routing protocol?
Which three characteristics are representative of a link-state routing protocol? (Choose three.)
A. provides common view of entire topology
B. exchanges routing tables with neighbors
C. calculates shortest path
D. utilizes event-triggered updates
E. utilizes frequent periodic updates
Answer: ACD
Question 156
Which two statements about late collisions are true?
Which two statements about late collisions are true? (Choose two.)
A. They may indicate a duplex mismatch.
B. By definition, they occur after the 512th bit of the frame has been transmitted.
C. They indicate received frames that did not pass the FCS match.
D. They are frames that exceed 1518 bytes.
E. They occur when CRC errors and interference occur on the cable.
Answer: AB
Question 157
Which protocol is the Cisco proprietary implementation of FHRP?
Which protocol is the Cisco proprietary implementation of FHRP?
A. HSRP
B. VRRP
C. GLBP
D. CARP
Answer: A
Question 158
What is the danger of the permit any entry in a NAT access list?
What is the danger of the permit any entry in a NAT access list?
A. It can lead to overloaded resources on the router.
B. It can cause too many addresses to be assigned to the same interface.
C. It can disable the overload command.
D. It prevents the correct translation of IP addresses on the inside network.
Answer: A
Question 159
Which two types of NAT addresses are used in a Cisco NAT device?
Which two types of NAT addresses are used in a Cisco NAT device? (Choose two.)
A. inside local
B. inside global
C. inside private
D. outside private
E. external global
F. external local
Answer: AB
Question 160
Which command can you enter to set the default route for all traffic to an interface?
Which command can you enter to set the default route for all traffic to an interface?
A. router(config)#ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 GigabitEthernet0/1
B. router(config)#ip route 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255 GigabitEthernet0/1
C. router(config-router)#default-information originate
D. router(config-router)#default-information originate always
Answer: A
Question 161
What is the purpose of the POST operation on a router?
What is the purpose of the POST operation on a router?
A. determine whether additional hardware has been added
B. locate an IOS image for booting
C. enable a TFTP server
D. set the configuration register
Answer: A
Question 162
which three ways is an IPv6 header simpler than an IPv4 header?
In which three ways is an IPv6 header simpler than an IPv4 header? (Choose three.)
A. Unlike IPv4 headers, IPv6 headers have a fixed length.
B. IPv6 uses an extension header instead of the IPv4 Fragmentation field.
C. IPv6 headers eliminate the IPv4 Checksum field.
D. IPv6 headers use the Fragment Offset field in place of the IPv4 Fragmentation field.
E. IPv6 headers use a smaller Option field size than IPv4 headers.
F. IPv6 headers use a 4-bit TTL field, and IPv4 headers use an 8-bit TTL field.
Answer: ABC
Question 163
Which feature builds a FIB and an adjacency table to expedite packet forwarding?
Which feature builds a FIB and an adjacency table to expedite packet forwarding?
A. Cisco Express Forwarding
B. process switching
C. fast switching
D. cut-through
Answer: A
Question 164
Which technology can enable multiple VLANs to communicate with one another?
Which technology can enable multiple VLANs to communicate with one another?
A. inter-VLAN routing using a Layer 3 switch
B. inter-VLAN routing using a Layer 2 switch
C. intra-VLAN routing using router on a stick
D. intra-VLAN routing using a Layer 3 switch
Answer: A
Question 165
Which two spanning-tree port states does RSTP combine to allow faster convergence?
Which two spanning-tree port states does RSTP combine to allow faster convergence? (Choose two.)
A. blocking
B. listening
C. learning
D. forwarding
E. discarding
Answer: AB
Question 166
Which condition indicates that service password-encryption is enabled?
Which condition indicates that service password-encryption is enabled?
A. The local username password is encrypted in the configuration.
B. The enable secret is encrypted in the configuration.
C. The local username password is in clear text in the configuration.
D. The enable secret is in clear text in the configuration.
Answer: A
Question 167
What are three broadband wireless technologies?
What are three broadband wireless technologies? (Choose three.)
A. WiMax
B. satellite Internet
C. municipal Wi-Fi
D. site-to-site VPN
E. DSLAM
F. CMTS
Answer: ABC
Question 168
Which protocol advertises a virtual IP address to facilitate transparent failover of a Cisco routing device?
Which protocol advertises a virtual IP address to facilitate transparent failover of a Cisco routing device?
A. FHRP
B. DHCP
C. RSMLT
D. ESRP
Answer: A
Question 169
What is the effect of the overload keyword in a static NAT translation configuration?
What is the effect of the overload keyword in a static NAT translation configuration?
A. It enables port address translation.
B. It enables the use of a secondary pool of IP addresses when the first pool is depleted.
C. It enables the inside interface to receive traffic.
D. It enables the outside interface to forward traffic.
Answer: A
Question 170
Which technology allows a large number of private IP addresses to be represented by a smaller number of public IP addresses?
Which technology allows a large number of private IP addresses to be represented by a smaller number of public IP addresses?
A. NAT
B. NTP
C. RFC 1631
D. RFC 1918
Answer: A
Question 171
Which command can you enter to route all traffic that is destined for 192.168.0.0/20 to a specific interface?
Which command can you enter to route all traffic that is destined for 192.168.0.0/20 to a specific interface?
A. router(config)#ip route 192.168.0.0 255.255.240.0 GigabitEthernet0/1
B. router(config)#ip route 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.0 GigabitEthernet0/1
C. router(config)#ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 GigabitEthernet0/1
D. router(config)#ip route 192.168.0.0 255.255.255.0 GigabitEthernet0/1
Answer: A
Question 172
Which step in the router boot process searches for an IOS image to load into the router?
Which step in the router boot process searches for an IOS image to load into the router?
A. bootstrap
B. POST
C. mini-IOS
D. ROMMON mode
Answer: A
Question 173
What is the correct routing match to reach 172.16.1.5/32?
What is the correct routing match to reach 172.16.1.5/32?
A. 172.16.1.0/26
B. 172.16.1.0/25
C. 172.16.1.0/24
D. the default route
Answer: A
Question 174
Which two statements about the tunnel mode ipv6ip command are true?
Which two statements about the tunnel mode ipv6ip command are true? (Choose two.)
A. It enables the transmission of IPv6 packets within the configured tunnel.
B. It specifies IPv4 as the encapsulation protocol.
C. It specifies IPv6 as the encapsulation protocol.
D. It specifies IPv6 as the transport protocol.
E. It specifies that the tunnel is a Teredo tunnel.
Answer: AB
Question 175
Which IPv6 header field is equivalent to the TTL?
Which IPv6 header field is equivalent to the TTL?
A. Hop Limit
B. Flow Label
C. TTD
D. Hop Count
E. Scan Timer
Answer: A
Question 176
Which switch takes over?
If the primary root bridge experiences a power loss, which switch takes over?
A. switch 0004.9A1A.C182
B. switch 00E0.F90B.6BE3
C. switch 00E0.F726.3DC6
D. switch 0040.0BC0.90C5
Answer: A
Question 177
Which command can you use to set the hostname on a switch?
Which command can you use to set the hostname on a switch?
A. switch-mdf-c1(config)#hostname switch-mdf1
B. switch-mdf-c1>hostname switch-mdf1
C. switch-mdf-c1#hostname switch-mdf1
D. switch-mdf-c1(config-if)#hostname switch-mdf1
Answer: A
Question 178
How many broadcast domains are present on the router?
If a router has four interfaces and each interface is connected to four switches, how many broadcast domains are present on the router?
A. 1
B. 2
C. 4
D. 8
Answer: C
Question 179
Which three statements are correct about RIP version 2?
The Company WAN is migrating from RIPv1 to RIPv2.
Which three statements are correct about RIP version 2? (Choose three)
A. It has the same maximum hop count as version 1.
B. It uses broadcasts for its routing updates.
C. It is a classless routing protocol.
D. It has a lower default administrative distance than RIP version 1.
E. It supports authentication.
F. It does not send the subnet mask in updates.
Answer: ACE
Question 182
What are two recommended ways of protecting network device configuration files from outside network security threats?
What are two recommended ways of protecting network device configuration files from outside network security threats? (Choose two.)
A. Allow unrestricted access to the console or VTY ports.
B. Use a firewall to restrict access from the outside to the network devices.
C. Always use Telnet to access the device command line because its data is automatically encrypted.
D. Use SSH or another encrypted and authenticated transport to access device configurations.
E. Prevent the loss of passwords by disabling password encryption.
Answer: BD
Question 185
Which of the following services use UDP?
Which of the following services use UDP? (Choose three.)
A. Telnet
B. TFTP
C. SNMP
D. DNS
E. SMTP
F. HTTP
Answer: BCD
Question 187
What subnet mask will provide the 100 subnetworks required, if 500 usable host addresses are required per subnet?
A network administrator is planning a network installation for a large organization. The design requires 100 separate subnetworks, so the company has acquired a
Class B network address.
What subnet mask will provide the 100 subnetworks required, if 500 usable host addresses are required per subnet?
A. 255.255.240.0
B. 255.255.248.0
C. 255.255.252.0
D. 255.255.254.0
E. 255.255.255.0
F. 255.255.255.192
Answer: D
Question 188
What are the results of adding this command?
The network administrator of the Oregon router adds the following command to the router configuration: ip route 192.168.12.0 255.255.255.0 172.16.12.1. What are
the results of adding this command? (Choose two.)
A. The command establishes a static route.
B. The command invokes a dynamic routing protocol for 192.168.12.0.
C. Traffic for network 192.168.12.0 is forwarded to 172.16.12.1.
D. Traffic for all networks is forwarded to 172.16.12.1.
E. This route is automatically propagated throughout the entire network.
F. Traffic for network 172.16.12.0 is forwarded to the 192.168.12.0 network.
Answer: AC
Question 189
The OSPF Hello protocol performs which of the following tasks?
The OSPF Hello protocol performs which of the following tasks? (Choose two.)
A. It provides dynamic neighbor discovery.
B. It detects unreachable neighbors in 90 second intervals.
C. It maintains neighbor relationships.
D. It negotiates correctness parameters between neighboring interfaces.
E. It uses timers to elect the router with the fastest links as the designated router.
F. It broadcasts hello packets throughout the internetwork to discover all routers that are running OSPF.
Answer: AC
Question 190
What value does a router use for the OSPF router ID in the absence of a loopback interface?
If all OSPF routers in a single area are configured with the same priority value, what value does a router use for the OSPF router ID in the absence of a loopback
interface?
A. the IP address of the first Fast Ethernet interface
B. the IP address of the console management interface
C. the highest IP address among its active interfaces
D. the lowest IP address among its active interfaces
E. the priority value until a loopback interface is configured
Answer: C
Question 191
Which address is the IPv6 all-RIP-routers multicast group address that is used by RIPng as the destination address for RIP updates?
Which address is the IPv6 all-RIP-routers multicast group address that is used by RIPng as the destination address for RIP updates?
A. FF02::9
B. FF02::6
C. FF05::101
D. FF02::A
Answer: A
Question 192
Which statement explains the reason for this issue?
A network administrator receives an error message while trying to configure the Ethernet interface of a router with IP address 10.24.24.24/29. Which statement
explains the reason for this issue?
A. This address is a broadcast address.
B. VLSM-capable routing protocols must be enabled first on the router.
C. The Ethernet interface is faulty.
D. This address is a network address.
Answer: D
Question 195
How can an administrator determine if a router has been configured when it is first powered up?
How can an administrator determine if a router has been configured when it is first powered up?
A. A configured router prompts for a password.
B. A configured router goes to the privileged mode prompt.
C. An unconfigured router goes into the setup dialog.
D. An unconfigured router goes to the enable mode prompt.
Answer: C
Question 196
Which three statements are correct about RIP version 2?
Which three statements are correct about RIP version 2? (Choose three)
A. It uses broadcast for its routing updates
B. It supports authentication
C. It is a classless routing protocol
D. It has a lower default administrative distance than RIP version 1
E. It has the same maximum hop count as version 1
F. It does not send the subnet mask un updates
Answer: BCE
Question 197
What does “line protocol is up” specifically indicate about the interface?
An administrator issues the show ip interface s0/0 command and the output displays that interface Serial0/0 is up, line protocol is up What does “line protocol is up”
specifically indicate about the interface?
A. The cable is attached properly.
B. CDP has discovered the connected device.
C. Keepalives are being received on the interface.
D. A carrier detect signal has been received from the connected device.
E. IP is correctly configured on the interface.
Answer: C
Question 198
In which situation would the use of a static route be appropriate?
In which situation would the use of a static route be appropriate?
A. To configure a route to the first Layer 3 device on the network segment.
B. To configure a route from an ISP router into a corporate network.
C. To configure a route when the administrative distance of the current routing protocol is too low.
D. To reach a network is more than 15 hops away.
E. To provide access to the Internet for enterprise hosts.
Answer: B
Question 203
Which are these addresses?
Assuming a subnet mask of 255.255.248.0, three of the following addresses are valid host addresses. Which are these addresses? (Choose three.)
A. 172.16.9.0
B. 172.16.8.0
C. 172.16.31.0
D. 172.16.20.0
Answer: ACD
Question 204
What are two security appliances that can be installed in a network?
What are two security appliances that can be installed in a network? (Choose two.)
A. ATM
B. IDS
C. IOS
D. IOX
E. IPS
F. SDM
Answer: BE
Question 205
What are two characteristics of Telnet?
What are two characteristics of Telnet? (Choose two.)
A. It sends data in clear text format.
B. It is no longer supported on Cisco network devices.
C. It is more secure than SSH.
D. It requires an enterprise license in order to be implemented.
E. It requires that the destination device be configured to support Telnet connections.
Answer: AE
Question 206
Which of the following describes the roles of devices in a WAN?
Which of the following describes the roles of devices in a WAN? (Choose three.)
A. A CSU/DSU terminates a digital local loop.
B. A modem terminates a digital local loop.
C. A CSU/DSU terminates an analog local loop.
D. A modem terminates an analog local loop.
E. A router is commonly considered a DTE device.
F. A router is commonly considered a DCE device.
Answer: ADE
Question 209
Switch ports operating in which two roles will forward traffic according to the IEEE 802.1w standard?
Switch ports operating in which two roles will forward traffic according to the IEEE 802.1w standard? (Choose two.)
A. alternate
B. backup
C. designated
D. disabled
E. root
Answer: CE
Question 212
Which three statements are typical characteristics of VLAN arrangements?
Which three statements are typical characteristics of VLAN arrangements? (Choose three.)
A. A new switch has no VLANs configured.
B. Connectivity between VLANs requires a Layer 3 device.
C. VLANs typically decrease the number of collision domains.
D. Each VLAN uses a separate address space.
E. A switch maintains a separate bridging table for each VLAN.
F. VLANs cannot span multiple switches.
Answer: BDE
Question 214
Which two values are used by Spanning Tree Protocol to elect a root bridge?
Which two values are used by Spanning Tree Protocol to elect a root bridge? (Choose two.)
A. amount of RAM
B. bridge priority
C. IOS version
D. IP address
E. MAC address
F. speed of the links
Answer: BE
Question 216
What are two advantages of Layer 2 Ethernet switches over hubs?
What are two advantages of Layer 2 Ethernet switches over hubs? (Choose two.)
A. decreasing the number of collision domains
B. filtering frames based on MAC addresses
C. allowing simultaneous frame transmissions
D. increasing the size of broadcast domains
E. increasing the maximum length of UTP cabling between devices
Answer: BC
Question 217
Which two statements are true about the command ip route 172.16.3.0 255.255.255.0 192.168.2.4?
Which two statements are true about the command ip route 172.16.3.0 255.255.255.0 192.168.2.4? (Choose two.)
A. It establishes a static route to the 172.16.3.0 network.
B. It establishes a static route to the 192.168.2.0 network.
C. It configures the router to send any traffic for an unknown destination to the 172.16.3.0 network.
D. It configures the router to send any traffic for an unknown destination out the interface with the address 192.168.2.4.
E. It uses the default administrative distance.
F. It is a route that would be used last if other routes to the same destination exist.
Answer: AE
Question 218
What are two benefits of using VTP in a switching environment?
What are two benefits of using VTP in a switching environment? (Choose two.)
A. It allows switches to read frame tags.
B. It allows ports to be assigned to VLANs automatically.
C. It maintains VLAN consistency across a switched network.
D. It allows frames from multiple VLANs to use a single interface.
E. It allows VLAN information to be automatically propagated throughout the switching environment.
Answer: CE
Question 219
What is the best network device to which to directly connect the phones and computers, and what technology should be implemented on this device?
A company is installing IP phones. The phones and office computers connect to the same device.
To ensure maximum throughput for the phone data, the company needs to make sure that the phone traffic is on a different network from that of the office computer
data traffic. What is the best network device to which to directly connect the phones and computers, and what technology should be implemented on this device?
(Choose two.)
A. hub
B. router
C. switch
D. STP
E. subinterfaces
F. VLAN
Answer: CF
Question 221
What are two reasons a network administrator would use CDP?
What are two reasons a network administrator would use CDP? (Choose two.)
A. to verify the type of cable interconnecting two devices
B. to determine the status of network services on a remote device
C. to obtain VLAN information from directly connected switches
D. to verify Layer 2 connectivity between two devices when Layer 3 fails
E. to obtain the IP address of a connected device in order to telnet to the device
F. to determine the status of the routing protocols between directly connected routers
Answer: DE
Question 223
What should the network administrator tell the new technician about VTP configuration?
A network administrator is explaining VTP configuration to a new technician. What should the network administrator tell the new technician about VTP
configuration? (Choose three.)
A. A switch in the VTP client mode cannot update its local VLAN database.
B. A trunk link must be configured between the switches to forward VTP updates.
C. A switch in the VTP server mode can update a switch in the VTP transparent mode.
D. A switch in the VTP transparent mode will forward updates that it receives to other switches.
E. A switch in the VTP server mode only updates switches in the VTP client mode that have a higher VTP revision number.
F. A switch in the VTP server mode will update switches in the VTP client mode regardless of the configured VTP domain membership.
Answer: ABD
Question 226
How are VTP advertisements delivered to switches across the network?
How are VTP advertisements delivered to switches across the network?
A. anycast frames
B. multicast frames
C. broadcast frames
D. unicast frames
Answer: B
Question 228
Which pairing reflects a correct protocol-and-metric relationship?
Which pairing reflects a correct protocol-and-metric relationship?
A. OSPF and mumber of hops and reliability
B. EIGRP and link cost
C. IS-IS and delay and reliability
D. RIPv2 and number of hops
Answer: D
Question 229
Which name describes an IPV6 host-enable tunneling technique that uses IPV4 UDP,does not require dedicated gateway tunnels, and can pass through existing IPV4
NAT gateways?
Which name describes an IPV6 host-enable tunneling technique that uses IPV4 UDP,does not require dedicated gateway tunnels,and can pass through existing IPV4
NAT gateways?
A. dual stack
B. dynamic
C. Teredo
D. Manual 6to4
Answer: C
Question 231
Which statement is true, as relates to classful or classless routing?
Which statement is true, as relates to classful or classless routing?
A. Automatic summarization at classful boundries can cause problems on discontinuous subnets
B. EIGRP and OSPF are classful routing protocols and summarize routes by default
C. RIPv1 and OSPF are classless routing protocols
D. Classful routing protocols send the subnet mask in routing updates
Answer: A
Question 241
Refer to IPv6 address, could you tell me how many bits are included in each filed?
As a CCNA candidate, you must have a firm understanding of the IPv6 address structure. Refer to IPv6 address, could you tell me how many bits are included in each
filed?
A. 24
B. 4
C. 3
D. 16
Answer: D
Question 243
How should a router that is being used in a Frame Relay network be configured to avoid split horizon issues from preventing routing updates?
How should a router that is being used in a Frame Relay network be configured to avoid split horizon issues from preventing routing updates?
A. Configure a separate sub-interface for each PVC with a unique DLCI and subnet assigned to the sub-interface
B. Configure each Frame Relay circuit as a point-to-point line to support multicast and broadcast traffic
C. Configure many sub-interfaces on the same subnet
D. Configure a single sub-interface to establish multiple PVC connections to multiple remote router interfaces
Answer: A
Question 244
Which of the following are key characteristics of PPP?
Which of the following are key characteristics of PPP? (Choose three.)
A. can be used over analog circuits
B. maps Layer 2 to Layer 3 address
C. encapsulates several routed protocols
D. supports IP only
E. provides error correction
Answer: ACE
Question 245
A default Frame Relay WAN is classified as what type of physical network?
A default Frame Relay WAN is classified as what type of physical network?
A. point-to-point
B. broadcast multi-access
C. nonbroadcast multi-access
D. nonbroadcast multipoint
E. broadcast point-to-multipoint
Answer: C
Question 246
What is the effect of this access list configuration?
The following configuration line was added to router R1 Access-list 101 permit ip 10.25.30.0 0.0.0.255 any. What is the effect of this access list configuration?
A. ermit all packets matching the first three octets of the source address to all destinations
B. permit all packet matching the last octet of the destination address and accept all source addresses
C. permit all packet matching the host bits in the source address to all destinations
D. permit all packet from the third subnet of the network address to all destinations
Answer: A
Question 247
How will the above access lists affect traffic?
The following access list below was applied outbound on the E0 interface connected to the 192.169.1.8/29 LAN: access-list 135 deny tcp 192.169.1.8 0.0.0.7 eq 20
any access-list 135 deny tcp 192.169.1.8 0.0.0.7 eq 21 any How will the above access lists affect traffic?
A. FTP traffic from 192.169.1.22 will be denied
B. No traffic, except for FTP traffic will be allowed to exit E0
C. FTP traffic from 192.169.1.9 to any host will be denied
D. All traffic exiting E0 will be denied
E. All FTP traffic to network 192.169.1.9/29 will be denied
Answer: D
Question 250
What command should be issued to accomplish this task?
A network administrator wants to add a line to an access list that will block only Telnet access by the hosts on subnet 192.168.1.128/28 to the server at 192.168.1.5.
What command should be issued to accomplish this task?
A. access-list 101 deny tcp 192.168.1.128 0.0.0.15 192.168.1.5 0.0.0.0 eq 23
access-list 101 permit ip any any
B. access-list 101 deny tcp 192.168.1.128 0.0.0.240 192.168.1.5 0.0.0.0 eq 23
access-list 101 permit ip any any
C. access-list 1 deny tcp 192.168.1.128 0.0.0.255 192.168.1.5 0.0.0.0 eq 21
access-list 1 permit ip any any
D. access-list 1 deny tcp 192.168.1.128 0.0.0.15 host 192.168.1.5 eq 23
access-list 1 permit ip any any
Answer: A
Question 254
What are two characteristics of SSH?
What are two characteristics of SSH? (Choose two.)
A. most common remote-access method
B. unsecured
C. encrypted
D. uses port 22
E. operates at the transport layer
Answer: DE
Question 256
Which command will display the CHAP authentication process as it occur between two routers in the network?
All WAN links inside the ABC University network use PPP with CHAP for authentication security.
Which command will display the CHAP authentication process as it occur between two routers in the network?
A. show chap authentication
B. show interface serial0
C. debug ppp authentication
D. debug chap authentication
E. show ppp authentication chap
Answer: C
Question 257
What is one reason that WPA encryption is preferred over WEP?
What is one reason that WPA encryption is preferred over WEP?
A. A WPA key is longer and requires more special characters than the WEP key.
B. The access point and the client are manually configured with different WPA key values.
C. WPA key values remain the same until the client configuration is changed.
D. The values of WPA keys can change dynamically while the system is used.
Answer: D
Question 258
Which additional configuration step is necessary in order to connect to an access point that has
Which additional configuration step is necessary in order to connect to an access point that has SSID broadcasting disabled?
A. Set the SSID value in the client software to public.
B. Configure open authentication on the AP and the client.
C. Set the SSID value on the client to the SSID configured on the AP.
D. Configured MAC address filtering to permit the client to connect to the AP.
Answer: C
Question 261
Which of the following are types of flow control?
Which of the following are types of flow control? (Choose three.)
A. buffering
B. cut-through
C. windowing
D. congestion avoidance
E. load balancing
Answer: ACD
Question 262
Which of the following IP addresses fall into the CIDR block of 115.64.4.0/22?
Which of the following IP addresses fall into the CIDR block of 115.64.4.0/22? (Choose three.)
A. 115.64.8.32
B. 115.64.7.64
C. 115.64.6.255
D. 115.64.3.255
E. 115.64.5.128
F. 115.64.12.128
Answer: BCE
Question 264
What is a global command?
What is a global command?
A. a command that is set once and affects the entire router
B. a command that is implemented in all foreign and domestic IOS versions
C. a command that is universal in application and supports all protocols
D. a command that is available in every release of IOS, regardless of the version or deployment status
E. a command that can be entered in any configuration mode
Answer: A
Explanation:
When you enter global configuration mode and enter a command, it is applied to the running configuration file that is currently running in ram. The configuration of
a global command affects the entire router.
An example of a global command is one used for the hostname of the router.
Question 265
Which statement describes VRRP object tracking?
Which statement describes VRRP object tracking?
A. It monitors traffic flow and link utilization.
B. It ensures the best VRRP router is the virtual router master for the group.
C. It causes traffic to dynamically move to higher bandwidth links.
D. It thwarts man-in-the-middle attacks.
Answer: B
Explanation:
Object tracking is the process of tracking the state of a configured object and uses that state to determine the priority of the VRRP router in a VRRP group
Question 266
Which router will respond to client ARP requests?
In GLBP, which router will respond to client ARP requests?
A. The active virtual gateway will reply with one of four possible virtual MAC addresses.
B. All GLBP member routers will reply in round-robin fashion.
C. The active virtual gateway will reply with its own hardware MAC address.
D. The GLBP member routers will reply with one of four possible burned in hardware addresses.
Answer: A
Explanation:
One disadvantage of HSRP and VRRP is that only one router is in use, other routers must wait for the primary to fail because they can be used. However, Gateway
Load Balancing Protocol (GLBP) can use of up to four routers simultaneously. In GLBP, there is still only one virtual IP address but each router has a different
virtual MAC address. First a GLBP group must elect an Active Virtual Gateway (AVG). The AVG is responsible for replying ARP requests from hosts/clients. It
replies with different virtual MAC addresses that correspond to different routers (known as Active Virtual Forwarders – AVFs) so that clients can send traffic to
different routers in that GLBP group (load sharing).
Question 267
What is a valid HSRP virtual MAC address?
What is a valid HSRP virtual MAC address?
A. 0000.5E00.01A3
B. 0007.B400.AE01
C. 0000.0C07.AC15
D. 0007.5E00.B301
Answer: C
Explanation:
With HSRP, two or more devices support a virtual router with a fictitious MAC address and unique IP address. There are two version of HSRP.
+ With HSRP version 1, the virtual router’s MAC address is 0000.0c07.ACxx , in which xx is the HSRP group.
+ With HSRP version 2, the virtual MAC address if 0000.0C9F.Fxxx, in which xxx is the HSRP group.
Note: Another case is HSRP for IPv6, in which the MAC address range from 0005.73A0.0000 through 0005.73A0.0FFF.
Question 276
What levels will be trapped if the administrator executes the command router(config)# logging trap 4 (Choose four) ?
What levels will be trapped if the administrator executes the command router(config)# logging trap 4 (Choose four) ?
A. Emergency
B. Notice
C. Alert
D. Error
E. Warning
Answer: ACDE
Explanation:
The Message Logging is divided into 8 levels as listed below:
Level Keyword Description
0 emergencies System is unusable
1 alerts Immediate action is needed
2 critical Critical conditions exist
3 errors Error conditions exist
4 warnings Warning conditions exist
5 notification Normal, but significant, conditions exist 6 informational Informational messages
7 debugging Debugging messages
If you specify a level with the “logging trap level” command, that level and all the higher levels will be logged.
For example, by using the “logging trap 4 command, all the logging of emergencies, alerts, critical, errors, warnings will be logged.
Question 277
Who is responsible for the arp request?
In a GLBP network, who is responsible for the arp request?
A. AVF
B. AVG
C. Active Router
D. Standby Router
Answer: B
Question 278
Which three features are added in SNMPv3 over SNMPv2?
Which three features are added in SNMPv3 over SNMPv2?
A. Message Integrity
B. Compression
C. Authentication
D. Encryption
E. Error Detection
Answer: ACD
Question 279
What is the alert message generated by SNMP agents called ?
What is the alert message generated by SNMP agents called ?
A. TRAP
B. INFORM
C. GET
D. SET
Answer: AB
Explanation:
A TRAP is a SNMP message sent from one application to another (which is typically on a remote host). Their purpose is merely to notify the other application that
something has happened, has been noticed, etc. The big problem with TRAPs is that they’re unacknowledged so you don’t actually know if the remote application
received your oh-so-important message to it. SNMPv2 PDUs fixed this by introducing the notion of an INFORM, which is nothing more than an acknowledged TRAP.
Question 280
What are the three things that the Netflow uses to consider the traffic to be in a same flow?
What are the three things that the Netflow uses to consider the traffic to be in a same flow?
A. IP address
B. Interface name
C. Port numbers
D. L3 protocol type
E. MAC address
Answer: ACD
Explanation:
What is an IP Flow?
Each packet that is forwarded within a router or switch is examined for a set of IP packet attributes. These attributes are the IP packet identity or fingerprint of the
packet and determine if the packet is unique or similar to other packets. Traditionally, an IP Flow is based on a set of 5 and up to 7 IP packet attributes.
IP Packet attributes used by NetFlow:
+ IP source address
+ IP destination address
+ Source port
+ Destination port
+ Layer 3 protocol type
+ Class of Service
+ Router or switch interface
Question 281
Which protocol can cause overload on a CPU of a managed device?
Which protocol can cause overload on a CPU of a managed device?
A. Netflow
B. WCCP
C. IP SLA
D. SNMP
Answer: D
Explanation:
Sometimes, messages like this might appear in the router console:
%SNMP-3-CPUHOG: Processing [chars] of [chars]
They mean that the SNMP agent on the device has taken too much time to process a request.
You can determine the cause of high CPU use in a router by using the output of the show process cpu command.
Note: A managed device is a part of the network that requires some form of monitoring and management (routers, switches, servers, workstations, printers…).
Question 282
What are the benefit of using Netflow?
What are the benefit of using Netflow? (Choose three.)
A. Network, Application & User Monitoring
B. Network Planning
C. Security Analysis
D. Accounting/Billing
Answer: ACD
Question 283
Which 4 types of logs would be generated (choose four)
Syslog was configured with a level 3 trap. Which 4 types of logs would be generated (choose four)
A. Emergencies
B. Alerts
C. Critical
D. Errors
E. Warnings
Answer: ABCD
Explanation:
The Message Logging is divided into 8 levels as listed below:
Level Keyword Description
0 emergencies System is unusable
1 alerts Immediate action is needed
2 critical Critical conditions exist
3 errors Error conditions exist
4 warnings Warning conditions exist
5 notification Normal, but significant, conditions exist
6 informational Informational messages
7 debugging Debugging messages
The highest level is level 0 (emergencies). The lowest level is level 7. If you specify a level with the “logging console level” command, that level and all the higher
levels will be displayed. For example, by using the “logging console warnings” command, all the logging of emergencies, alerts, critical, errors, warnings will be
displayed.
Question 284
What are the Popular destinations for syslog messages to be saved?
What are the Popular destinations for syslog messages to be saved?
A. Flash
B. The logging buffer .RAM
C. The console terminal
D. Other terminals
E. Syslog server
Answer: BCE
Explanation:
By default, switches send the output from system messages and debug privileged EXEC commands to a logging process. The logging process controls the distribution
of logging messages to various destinations, such as the logging buffer (on RAM), terminal lines (console terminal), or a UNIX syslog server, depending on your
configuration. The process also sends messages to the console.
Note: Syslog messages can be written to a file in Flash memory although it is not a popular place to use. We can configure this feature with the command logging file
flash:filename.
Question 285
Which three are the components of SNMP?
Which three are the components of SNMP? (Choose three)
A. MIB
B. SNMP Manager
C. SysLog Server
D. SNMP Agent
E. Set
Answer: ABD
Explanation:
SNMP is an application-layer protocol that provides a message format for communication between SNMP managers and agents. SNMP provides a standardized
framework and a common language used for the monitoring and management of devices in a network.
The SNMP framework has three parts:
+ An SNMP manager
+ An SNMP agent
+ A Management Information Base (MIB)
The SNMP manager is the system used to control and monitor the activities of network hosts using SNMP. The most common managing system is called a Network
Management System (NMS). The term NMS can be applied to either a dedicated device used for network management, or the applications used on such a device. A
variety of network management applications are available for use with SNMP. These features range from simple command-line applications to feature-rich graphical
user interfaces (such as the CiscoWorks2000 line of products).
The SNMP agent is the software component within the managed device that maintains the data for the device and reports these data, as needed, to managing systems.
The agent and MIB reside on the routing device (router, access server, or switch). To enable the SNMP agent on a Cisco routing device, you must define the
relationship between the manager and the agent.
The Management Information Base (MIB) is a virtual information storage area for network management information, which consists of collections of managed
objects.
Question 286
Which statement describes the process ID that is used to run OSPF on a router?
Which statement describes the process ID that is used to run OSPF on a router?
A. It is globally significant and is used to represent the AS number.
B. It is locally significant and is used to identify an instance of the OSPF database.
C. It is globally significant and is used to identify OSPF stub areas.
D. It is locally significant and must be the same throughout an area.
Answer: B
Question 287
What OSPF command, when configured, will include all interfaces into area 0?
What OSPF command, when configured, will include all interfaces into area 0?
A. network 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255 area 0
B. network 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 area 0
C. network 255.255.255.255 0.0.0.0 area 0
D. network all-interfaces area 0
Answer: A
Question 288
What command sequence will configure a router to run OSPF and add network 10.1.1.0 /24 to area 0?
What command sequence will configure a router to run OSPF and add network 10.1.1.0 /24 to area 0?
A. router ospf area 0
network 10.1.1.0 255.255.255.0 area 0
B. router ospf
network 10.1.1.0 0.0.0.255
C. router ospf 1
network 10.1.1.0 0.0.0.255 area 0
D. router ospf area 0
network 10.1.1.0 0.0.0.255 area 0
E. router ospf
network 10.1.1.0 255.255.255.0 area 0
F. router ospf 1
network 10.1.1.0 0.0.0.255
Answer: C
Question 290
On what interface is the IP address configured?
A network administrator creates a layer 3 EtherChannel, bundling four interfaces into channel group 1. On what interface is the IP address configured?
A. the port-channel 1 interface
B. the highest number member interface
C. all member interfaces
D. the lowest number member interface
Answer: A
Question 291
When a router undergoes the exchange protocol within OSPF, in what order does it pass through each state?
When a router undergoes the exchange protocol within OSPF, in what order does it pass through each state?
A. exstart state > loading state > exchange state > full state
B. exstart state > exchange state > loading state > full state
C. exstart state > full state > loading state > exchange state
D. loading state > exchange state > full state > exstart state
Answer: B
Question 292
What are two enhancements that OSPFv3 supports over OSPFv2?
What are two enhancements that OSPFv3 supports over OSPFv2? (Choose two.)
A. It requires the use of ARP.
B. It can support multiple IPv6 subnets on a single link.
C. It supports up to 2 instances of OSPFv3 over a common link.
D. It routes over links rather than over networks.
Answer: BD
Question 295
What are two benefits of using a single OSPF area network design?
What are two benefits of using a single OSPF area network design? (Choose two.)
A. It is less CPU intensive for routers in the single area.
B. It reduces the types of LSAs that are generated.
C. It removes the need for virtual links.
D. It increases LSA response times.
E. It reduces the number of required OSPF neighbor adjacencies.
Answer: BC
Question 296
What parameter can be different on ports within an EtherChannel?
What parameter can be different on ports within an EtherChannel?
A. speed
B. DTP negotiation settings
C. trunk encapsulation
D. duplex
Answer: B
Question 297
Which two statements about the OSPF Router ID are true?
Which two statements about the OSPF Router ID are true? (Choose two.)
A. It identifies the source of a Type 1 LSA.
B. It should be the same on all routers in an OSPF routing instance.
C. By default, the lowest IP address on the router becomes the OSPF Router ID.
D. The router automatically chooses the IP address of a loopback as the OSPF Router ID.
E. It is created using the MAC Address of the loopback interface.
Answer: AD
Question 298
What are three factors a network administrator must consider before implementing Netflow in the network?
What are three factors a network administrator must consider before implementing Netflow in the network? (Choose three.)
A. CPU utilization
B. where Netflow data will be sent
C. number of devices exporting Netflow data
D. port availability
E. SNMP version
F. WAN encapsulation
Answer: ABC
Question 300
What are three values that must be the same within a sequence of packets for Netflow to consider them a network flow?
What are three values that must be the same within a sequence of packets for Netflow to consider them a network flow? (Choose three.)
A. source IP address
B. source MAC address
C. egress interface
D. ingress interface
E. destination IP address
F. IP next-hop
Answer: ADE
Question 301
What command visualizes the general NetFlow data on the command line?
What command visualizes the general NetFlow data on the command line?
A. show ip flow export
B. show ip flow top-talkers
C. show ip cache flow
D. show mls sampling
E. show mls netflow ip
Answer: C
Explanation:
The “show ip cache flow” command displays a summary of the NetFlow
Question 302
What Cisco IOS feature can be enabled to pinpoint an application that is causing slow network performance?
What Cisco IOS feature can be enabled to pinpoint an application that is causing slow network performance?
A. SNMP
B. Netflow
C. WCCP
D. IP SLA
Answer: B
Question 303
What Netflow component can be applied to an interface to track IPv4 traffic?
What Netflow component can be applied to an interface to track IPv4 traffic?
A. flow monitor
B. flow record
C. flow sampler
D. flow exporter
Answer: A
Explanation:
Flow monitors are the Flexible NetFlow component that is applied to interfaces to perform network traffic monitoring. Flow monitors consist of a record and a
cache. You add the record to the flow monitor after you create the flow monitor. The flow monitor cache is automatically created at the time the flow monitor is
applied to the first interface. Flow data is collected from the network traffic during the monitoring process based on the key and nonkey fields in the record, which is
configured for the flow monitor and stored in the flow monitor cache.
For example, the following example creates a flow monitor named FLOW-MONITOR-1 and enters Flexible NetFlow flow monitor configuration mode:
Router(config)# flow monitor FLOW-MONITOR-1
Router(config-flow-monitor)#
Question 304
What are three reasons to collect Netflow data on a company network?
What are three reasons to collect Netflow data on a company network? (Choose three.)
A. To identify applications causing congestion.
B. To authorize user network access.
C. To report and alert link up / down instances.
D. To diagnose slow network performance, bandwidth hogs, and bandwidth utilization.
E. To detect suboptimal routing in the network.
F. To confirm the appropriate amount of bandwidth that has been allocated to each Class of Service.
Answer: ADF
Question 305
Which three statements about the features of SNMPv2 and SNMPv3 are true?
Which three statements about the features of SNMPv2 and SNMPv3 are true? (Choose three.)
A. SNMPv3 enhanced SNMPv2 security features.
B. SNMPv3 added the Inform protocol message to SNMP.
C. SNMPv2 added the Inform protocol message to SNMP.
D. SNMPv3 added the GetBulk protocol messages to SNMP.
E. SNMPv2 added the GetBulk protocol message to SNMP.
F. SNMPv2 added the GetNext protocol message to SNMP.
Answer: ACE
Question 306
What authentication type is used by SNMPv2?
What authentication type is used by SNMPv2?
A. HMAC-MD5
B. HMAC-SHA
C. CBC-DES
D. community strings
Answer: D
Question 307
What SNMP message alerts the manager to a condition on the network?
What SNMP message alerts the manager to a condition on the network?
A. response
B. get
C. trap
D. capture
Answer: C
Explanation:
An agent can send unsolicited traps to the manager. Traps are messages alerting the SNMP manager to a condition on the network. Traps can mean improper user
authentication, restarts, link status (up or down), MAC address tracking, closing of a TCP connection, loss of connection to a neighbor, or other significant events.
Question 308
What are three components that comprise the SNMP framework?
What are three components that comprise the SNMP framework? (Choose three.)
A. MIB
B. agent
C. set
D. AES
E. supervisor
F. manager
Answer: ABF
Question 309
What are three components that comprise the SNMP framework?
What are three components that comprise the SNMP framework? (Choose three.)
A. MIB
B. agent
C. set
D. AES
E. supervisor
F. manager
Answer: ABF
Question 311
What command instructs the device to timestamp Syslog debug messages in milliseconds?
What command instructs the device to timestamp Syslog debug messages in milliseconds?
A. service timestamps log datetime localtime
B. service timestamps debug datetime msec
C. service timestamps debug datetime localtime
D. service timestamps log datetime msec
Answer: B
Explanation:
The “service timestamps debug” command configures the system to apply a time stamp to debugging messages. The time-stamp format for datetime is MMM DD
HH:MM:SS, where MMM is the month, DD is the date, HH is the hour (in 24-hour notation), MM is the minute, and SS is the second. With the additional keyword
msec, the system includes milliseconds in the time stamp, in the format HH:DD:MM:SS.mmm, where .mmm is milliseconds
Question 312
What is the default Syslog facility level?
What is the default Syslog facility level?
A. local4
B. local5
C. local6
D. local7
Answer: D
Question 313
What are three message types that will be sent to the Syslog server?
A network administrator enters the following command on a router: logging trap 3. What are three message types that will be sent to the Syslog server? (Choose
three.)
A. informational
B. emergency
C. warning
D. critical
E. debug
F. error
Answer: BDF
Question 314
Which three statements about Syslog utilization are true?
Which three statements about Syslog utilization are true? (Choose three.)
A. Utilizing Syslog improves network performance.
B. The Syslog server automatically notifies the network administrator of network problems.
C. A Syslog server provides the storage space necessary to store log files without using router disk space.
D. There are more Syslog messages available within Cisco IOS than there are comparable SNMP trap messages.
E. Enabling Syslog on a router automatically enables NTP for accurate time stamping.
F. A Syslog server helps in aggregation of logs and alerts.
Answer: CDF
Question 315
Which three statements about HSRP operation are true?
Which three statements about HSRP operation are true? (Choose three.)
A. The virtual IP address and virtual MA+K44C address are active on the HSRP Master router.
B. The HSRP default timers are a 3 second hello interval and a 10 second dead interval.
C. HSRP supports only clear-text authentication.
D. The HSRP virtual IP address must be on a different subnet than the routers’ interfaces on the same LAN.
E. The HSRP virtual IP address must be the same as one of the router’s interface addresses on the LAN.
F. HSRP supports up to 255 groups per interface, enabling an administrative form of load balancing.
Answer: ABF
Explanation:
The virtual MAC address of HSRP version 1 is 0000.0C07.ACxx, where xx is the HSRP group number in hexadecimal based on the respective interface. For example,
HSRP group 10 uses the HSRP virtual MAC address of 0000.0C07.AC0A. HSRP version 2 uses a virtual MAC address of 0000.0C9F.FXXX (XXX: HSRP group in
hexadecimal)
Question 316
What are three benefits of GLBP?
What are three benefits of GLBP? (Choose three.)
A. GLBP supports up to eight virtual forwarders per GLBP group.
B. GLBP supports clear text and MD5 password authentication between GLBP group members.
C. GLBP is an open source standardized protocol that can be used with multiple vendors.
D. GLBP supports up to 1024 virtual routers.
E. GLBP can load share traffic across a maximum of four routers.
F. GLBP elects two AVGs and two standby AVGs for redundancy.
Answer: BDE
Question 317
What does the IEEE 802.1Q standard describe?
In a switched environment, what does the IEEE 802.1Q standard describe?
A. the operation of VTP
B. a method of VLAN trunking
C. an approach to wireless LAN communication
D. the process for root bridge selection
E. VLAN pruning
Answer: B
Explanation:
A broadcast domain must sometimes exist on more than one switch in the network. To accomplish this, one switch must send frames to another switch and indicate
which VLAN a particular frame belongs to. On Cisco switches, a trunk link is created to accomplish this VLAN identification. ISL and IEEE 802.1Q are different
methods of putting a VLAN identifier in a Layer 2 frame. The IEEE 802.1Q protocol interconnects VLANs between multiple switches, routers, and servers. With
802.1Q, a network administrator can define a VLAN topology to span multiple physical devices.
Cisco switches support IEEE 802.1Q for FastEthernet and Gigabit Ethernet interfaces. An 802.1Q trunk link provides VLAN identification by adding a 4-byte tag to
an Ethernet Frame as it leaves a trunk port.
Question 342
Why do large OSPF networks use a hierarchical design?
Why do large OSPF networks use a hierarchical design? (Choose three.)
A. to decrease latency by increasing bandwidth
B. to reduce routing overhead
C. to speed up convergence
D. to confine network instability to single areas of the network
E. to reduce the complexity of router configuration
F. to lower costs by replacing routers with distribution layer switches
Answer: BCD
Explanation:
OSPF implements a two-tier hierarchical routing model that uses a core or backbone tier known as area zero (0). Attached to that backbone via area border routers
(ABRs) are a number of secondary tier areas. The hierarchical approach is used to achieve the following:
Rapid convergence because of link and/or switch failures
Deterministic traffic recovery
Scalable and manageable routing hierarchy, reduced routing overhead.
Question 343
Which parameter or parameters are used to calculate OSPF cost in Cisco routers?
Which parameter or parameters are used to calculate OSPF cost in Cisco routers?
A. Bandwidth
B. Bandwidth and Delay
C. Bandwidth, Delay, and MTU
D. Bandwidth, MTU, Reliability, Delay, and Load
Answer: A
Explanation:
The well-known formula to calculate OSPF cost is Cost = 108 / Bandwidth
Question 344
Which IP address range meets these requirements?
You are working in a data center environment and are assigned the address range 10.188.31.0/23. You are asked to develop an IP addressing plan to allow the
maximum number of subnets with as many as 30 hosts each. Which IP address range meets these requirements?
A. 10.188.31.0/26
B. 10.188.31.0/25
C. 10.188.31.0/28
D. 10.188.31.0/27
E. 10.188.31.0/29
Answer: D
Explanation:
Each subnet has 30 hosts < 32 = 25 so we need a subnet mask which has at least 5 bit 0s -> /27.
Also the question requires the maximum number of subnets (which minimum the number of hosts- per-subnet) so /27 is the best choice -> .
Question 345
Which IPv6 address is the equivalent of the IPv4 interface loopback address 127.0.0.1?
Which IPv6 address is the equivalent of the IPv4 interface loopback address 127.0.0.1?
A. ::1
B. ::
C. 2000::/3
D. 0::/10
Answer: A
Explanation:
In IPv6 the loopback address is written as,
This is a 128bit number, with the first 127 bits being ‘0’ and the 128th bit being ‘1’. It’s just a single address, so could also be written as ::1/128.
Question 346
What is the correct network address?
Given an IP address 172.16.28.252 with a subnet mask of 255.255.240.0, what is the correct network address?
A. 172.16.16.0
B. 172.16.0.0
C. 172.16.24.0
D. 172.16.28.0
Answer: A
Explanation:
For this example, the network range is 172.16.16.1 – 172.16.31.254, the network address is 172.16.16.0 and the broadcast IP address is 172.16.31.255.
Question 347
Which network address and subnet mask meet this requirement?
You have been asked to come up with a subnet mask that will allow all three web servers to be on the same network while providing the maximum number of
subnets. Which network address and subnet mask meet this requirement?
A. 192.168.252.0 255.255.255.252
B. 192.168.252.8 255.255.255.248
C. 192.168.252.8 255.255.255.252
D. 192.168.252.16 255.255.255.240
E. 192.168.252.16 255.255.255.252
Answer: B
Explanation:
A subnet mask of 255.255.255.248 will allow for up to 6 hosts to reside in this network. A subnet mask of 255.255.255.252 will allow for only 2 usable IP addresses,
since we can not use the network or broadcast address.
Question 348
Which command encrypts all plaintext passwords?
Which command encrypts all plaintext passwords?
A. Router# service password-encryption
B. Router(config)# password-encryption
C. Router(config)# service password-encryption
D. Router# password-encryption
Answer: C
Explanation:
The “service password-encryption” command allows you to encrypt all passwords on your router so they can not be easily guessed from your running-config. This
command uses a very weak encryption because the router has to be very quickly decode the passwords for its operation.
It is meant to prevent someone from looking over your shoulder and seeing the password, that is all. This is configured in global configuration mode.
Question 349
Which command enables IPv6 forwarding on a Cisco router?
Which command enables IPv6 forwarding on a Cisco router?
A. ipv6 local
B. ipv6 host
C. ipv6 unicast-routing
D. ipv6 neighbor
Answer: C
Explanation:
to enable IPv6 routing on the Cisco router use the following command:
ipv6 unicast-routing
If this command is not recognized, your version of IOS does not support IPv6.
Question 350
What are three features of the IPv6 protocol?
What are three features of the IPv6 protocol? (Choose three.)
A. optional IPsec
B. autoconfiguration
C. no broadcasts
D. complicated header
E. plug-and-play
F. checksums
Answer: BCE
Explanation:
An important feature of IPv6 is that it allows plug and play option to the network devices by allowing them to configure themselves independently. It is possible to
plug a node into an IPv6 network without requiring any human intervention. This feature was critical to allow network connectivity to an increasing number of
mobile devices. This is accomplished by autoconfiguration.
IPv6 does not implement traditional IP broadcast, i.e. the transmission of a packet to all hosts on the attached link using a special broadcast address, and therefore
does not define broadcast addresses. In IPv6, the same result can be achieved by sending a packet to the link-local all nodes multicast group at address ff02::1,
which is analogous to IPv4 multicast to address 224.0.0.1.
Question 351
Which two statements are true?
A network administrator needs to configure port security on a switch. Which two statements are true? (Choose two.)
A. The network administrator can apply port security to dynamic access ports.
B. The network administrator can apply port security to EtherChannels.
C. When dynamic MAC address learning is enabled on an interface, the switch can learn new addresses, up to the maximum defined.
D. The sticky learning feature allows the addition of dynamically learned addresses to the running configuration.
E. The network administrator can configure static secure or sticky secure MAC addresses in the voice VLAN.
Answer: CD
Explanation:
Follow these guidelines when configuring port security:
+ Port security can only be configured on static access ports, trunk ports, or 802.1Q tunnel ports.
+ A secure port cannot be a dynamic access port.
+ A secure port cannot be a destination port for Switched Port Analyzer (SPAN). + A secure port cannot belong to a Fast EtherChannel or Gigabit EtherChannel
port group. + You cannot configure static secure or sticky secure MAC addresses on a voice VLAN. + When you enable port security on an interface that is also
configured with a voice VLAN, you must set the maximum allowed secure addresses on the port to at least two. + If any type of port security is enabled on the access
VLAN, dynamic port security is automatically enabled on the voice VLAN.
+ When a voice VLAN is configured on a secure port that is also configured as a sticky secure port, all addresses seen on the voice VLAN are learned as dynamic
secure addresses, and all addresses seen on the access VLAN (to which the port belongs) are learned as sticky secure addresses.
+ The switch does not support port security aging of sticky secure MAC addresses. + The protect and restrict options cannot be simultaneously enabled on an
interface.
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/switches/lan/catalyst3550/software/release/12.1_19_ea1/configuration/guide/swtrafc.html
Question 352
Which two are advantages of static routing when compared to dynamic routing?
Which two are advantages of static routing when compared to dynamic routing? (Choose two.)
A. Configuration complexity decreases as network size increases.
B. Security increases because only the network administrator may change the routing table.
C. Route summarization is computed automatically by the router.
D. Routing tables adapt automatically to topology changes.
E. An efficient algorithm is used to build routing tables, using automatic updates.
F. Routing updates are automatically sent to neighbors.
G. Routing traffic load is reduced when used in stub network links.
Answer: BG
Explanation:
Since static routing is a manual process, it can be argued that it is more secure (and more prone to human errors) since the network administrator will need to make
changes to the routing table directly. Also, in stub networks where there is only a single uplink connection, the load is reduced as stub routers just need a single static
default route, instead of many routes that all have the same next hop IP address.
Question 353
Which two are features of IPv6?
Which two are features of IPv6? (Choose two.)
A. anycast
B. broadcast
C. multicast
D. podcast
E. allcast
Answer: AC
Explanation:
IPv6 addresses are classified by the primary addressing and routing methodologies common in networkinG. unicast addressing, anycast addressing, and multicast
addressing.
Question 354
What is the difference between a CSU/DSU and a modem?
What is the difference between a CSU/DSU and a modem?
A. A CSU/DSU converts analog signals from a router to a leased line; a modem converts analog signals from a router to a leased line.
B. A CSU/DSU converts analog signals from a router to a phone line; a modem converts digital signals from a router to a leased line.
C. A CSU/DSU converts digital signals from a router to a phone line; a modem converts analog signals from a router to a phone line.
D. A CSU/DSU converts digital signals from a router to a leased line; a modem converts digital signals from a router to a phone line.
Answer: D
Explanation:
CSU/DSU is used to convert digital signals from a router to a network circuit such as a T1, while a modem is used to convert digital signals over a regular POTS
line.
Question 357
What is the first 24 bits in a MAC address called?
What is the first 24 bits in a MAC address called?
A. NIC
B. BIA
C. OUI
D. VAI
Answer: C
Explanation:
An Organizationally Unique Identifier (OUI) is a 24-bit number that uniquely identifies a vendor, manufacturer, or other organization globally or worldwide. They
are used as the first 24 nits of the MAC address to uniquely identify a particular piece of equipment.
Question 358
What is known as “one-to-nearest” addressing in IPv6?
What is known as “one-to-nearest” addressing in IPv6?
A. global unicast
B. anycast
C. multicast
D. unspecified address
Answer: B
Explanation:
IPv6 Anycast addresses are used for one-to-nearest communication, meaning an Anycast address is used by a device to send data to one specific recipient (interface)
that is the closest out of a group of recipients (interfaces).
Question 359
Which set of commands is recommended to prevent the use of a hub in the access layer?
Which set of commands is recommended to prevent the use of a hub in the access layer?
A. switch(config-if)#switchport mode trunk
switch(config-if)#switchport port-security maximum 1
B. switch(config-if)#switchport mode trunk
switch(config-if)#switchport port-security mac-address 1
C. switch(config-if)#switchport mode
access switch(config-if)#switchport port-security maximum 1
D. switch(config-if)#switchport mode access
switch(config-if)#switchport port-security mac-address 1
Answer: C
Explanation:
This question is to examine the layer 2 security configuration. In order to satisfy the requirements of this question, you should perform the following configurations in
the interface mode:
First, configure the interface mode as the access mode Second, enable the port security and set the maximum number of connections to 1.
Question 360
Which two of these statements are true of IPv6 address representation?
Which two of these statements are true of IPv6 address representation? (Choose two.)
A. There are four types of IPv6 addresses: unicast, multicast, anycast, and broadcast.
B. A single interface may be assigned multiple IPv6 addresses of any type.
C. Every IPv6 interface contains at least one loopback address.
D. The first 64 bits represent the dynamically created interface ID.
E. Leading zeros in an IPv6 16 bit hexadecimal field are mandatory.
Answer: BC
Explanation:
Leading zeros in IPv6 are optional do that 05C7 equals 5C7 and 0000 equals 0 -> D is not correct.
Question 365
What is the effect of using the service password-encryption command?
What is the effect of using the service password-encryption command?
A. Only the enable password will be encrypted.
B. Only the enable secret password will be encrypted.
C. Only passwords configured after the command has been entered will be encrypted.
D. It will encrypt the secret password and remove the enable secret password from the configuration.
E. It will encrypt all current and future passwords.
Answer: E
Explanation:
Enable vty, console, AUX passwords are configured on the Cisco device. Use the show run command to show most passwords in clear text. If the service passwordencryption
is used, all the passwords are encrypted. As a result, the security of device access is improved.
Question 369
Which set of commands will accomplish this task?
A network administrator needs to allow only one Telnet connection to a router. For anyone viewing the configuration and issuing the show run command, the
password for Telnet access should be encrypted. Which set of commands will accomplish this task?
A. service password-encryption
access-list 1 permit 192.168.1.0 0.0.0.255
line vty 0 4
login
password cisco
access-class 1
B. enable password secret line vty 0 login password cisco
line vty 0
login
password cisco
C. service password-encryption line vty 1 login password cisco
line vty 1
login
password cisco
D. service password-encryption line vty 0 4 login password cisco
line vty 0 4
login
password cisco
Answer: C
Explanation:
Only one VTY connection is allowed which is exactly what’s requested.
Incorrect answer: command.
line vty0 4
would enable all 5 vty connections.
Question 370
Which route or routes will the router install in the routing table?
A router has learned three possible routes that could be used to reach a destination network. One route is from EIGRP and has a composite metric of 20514560.
Another route is from OSPF with a metric of 782. The last is from RIPv2 and has a metric of 4. Which route or routes will the router install in the routing table?
A. the OSPF route
B. the EIGRP route
C. the RIPv2 route
D. all three routes
E. the OSPF and RIPv2 routes
Answer: B
Explanation:
When one route is advertised by more than one routing protocol, the router will choose to use the routing protocol which has lowest Administrative Distance.
Question 375
How does using the service password-encryption command on a router provide additional security?
How does using the service password-encryption command on a router provide additional security?
A. by encrypting all passwords passing through the router
B. by encrypting passwords in the plain text configuration file
C. by requiring entry of encrypted passwords for access to the device
D. by configuring an MD5 encrypted key to be used by routing protocols to validate routing exchanges
E. by automatically suggesting encrypted passwords for use in configuring the router
Answer: B
Explanation:
By using this command, all the (current and future) passwords are encrypted. This command is primarily useful for keeping unauthorized individuals from viewing
your password in your configuration file
Question 378
What is the purpose of Inverse ARP?
What is the purpose of Inverse ARP?
A. to map a known IP address to a MAC address
B. to map a known DLCI to a MAC address
C. to map a known MAC address to an IP address
D. to map a known DLCI to an IP address
E. to map a known IP address to a SPID
F. to map a known SPID to a MAC address
Answer: D
Explanation:
Dynamic address mapping relies on the Frame Relay Inverse Address Resolution Protocol (Inverse ARP), defined by RFC 1293, to resolve a next hop network
protocol (IP) address to a local DLCI value. The Frame Relay router sends out Inverse ARP requests on its Frame Relay PVC to discover the protocol address of the
remote device connected to the Frame Relay network. The responses to the Inverse ARP requests are used to populate an address-to-DLCI mapping table on the
Frame Relay router or access server. The router builds and maintains this address-to- DLCI mapping table, which contains all resolved Inverse ARP requests,
including both dynamic and static mapping entries.
Question 379
What command is used to verify the DLCI destination address in a Frame Relay static configuration?
What command is used to verify the DLCI destination address in a Frame Relay static configuration?
A. show frame-relay pvc
B. show frame-relay lmi
C. show frame-relay map
D. show frame relay end-to-end
Answer: C
Explanation:
Sample “show frame-relay map” output:
R1#sh frame mapSerial0/0 (up): ip 10.4.4.1 dlci 401(0x191,0x6410), dynamic,broadcast,, status defined, activeSerial0/0 (up): ip 10.4.4.3 dlci 403(0x193,0x6430),
dynamic,broadcast,, status defined, activeSerial0/0 (up): ip 10.4.4.4 dlci 401(0x191,0x6410), static,CISCO, status defined, active
Question 380
What are two characteristics of Frame Relay point-to-point subinterfaces?
What are two characteristics of Frame Relay point-to-point subinterfaces? (Choose two.)
A. They create split-horizon issues.
B. They require a unique subnet within a routing domain.
C. They emulate leased lines.
D. They are ideal for full-mesh topologies.
E. They require the use of NBMA options when using OSPF.
Answer: BC
Explanation:
Subinterfaces are used for point to point frame relay connections, emulating virtual point to point leased lines. Each subinterface requires a unique IP
address/subnet. Remember, you can not assign multiple interfaces in a router that belong to the same IP subnet.
Question 381
Which PPP subprotocol negotiates authentication options?
Which PPP subprotocol negotiates authentication options?
A. NCP
B. ISDN
C. SLIP
D. LCP
E. DLCI
Answer: D
Explanation:
The PPP Link Control Protocol (LCP) is documented in RFC 1661. LPC negotiates link and PPP parameters to dynamically configure the data link layer of a PPP
connection. Common LCP options include the PPP MRU, the authentication protocol, compression of PPP header fields, callback, and multilink options.
Question 382
What is the result of issuing the frame-relay map ip 192.168.1.2 202 broadcast command?
What is the result of issuing the frame-relay map ip 192.168.1.2 202 broadcast command?
A. defines the destination IP address that is used in all broadcast packets on DCLI 202
B. defines the source IP address that is used in all broadcast packets on DCLI 202
C. defines the DLCI on which packets from the 192.168.1.2 IP address are received
D. defines the DLCI that is used for all packets that are sent to the 192.168.1.2 IP address
Answer: D
Explanation:
This command identifies the DLCI that should be used for all packets destined to the 192.168.1.2 address. In this case, DLCI 202 should be used.
Question 384
Which two statements about using the CHAP authentication mechanism in a PPP link are true?
Which two statements about using the CHAP authentication mechanism in a PPP link are true? (Choose two.)
A. CHAP uses a two-way handshake.
B. CHAP uses a three-way handshake.
C. CHAP authentication periodically occurs after link establishment.
D. CHAP authentication passwords are sent in plaintext.
E. CHAP authentication is performed only upon link establishment.
F. CHAP has no protection from playback attacks.
Answer: BC
Explanation:
CHAP is an authentication scheme used by Point to Point Protocol (PPP) servers to validate the identity of remote clients. CHAP periodically verifies the identity of
the client by using a three-way handshake. This happens at the time of establishing the initial link (LCP), and may happen again at any time afterwards. The
verification is based on a shared secret (such as the client user’s password).
Question 385
What occurs on a Frame Relay network when the CIR is exceeded?
What occurs on a Frame Relay network when the CIR is exceeded?
A. All TCP traffic is marked discard eligible.
B. All UDP traffic is marked discard eligible and a BECN is sent.
C. All TCP traffic is marked discard eligible and a BECN is sent.
D. All traffic exceeding the CIR is marked discard eligible.
Answer: D
Explanation:
Committed information rate (CIR): The minimum guaranteed data transfer rate agreed to by the Frame Relay switch. Frames that are sent in excess of the CIR are
marked as discard eligible (DE) which means they can be dropped if the congestion occurs within the Frame Relay network.
Note: In the Frame Relay frame format, there is a bit called Discard eligible (DE) bit that is used to identify frames that are first to be dropped when the CIR is
exceeded.
Question 386
Which of the following procedures are required to accomplish this task?
It has become necessary to configure an existing serial interface to accept a second Frame Relay virtual circuit. Which of the following procedures are required to
accomplish this task? (Choose three.)
A. Remove the IP address from the physical interface.
B. Encapsulate the physical interface with multipoint PPP.
C. Create the virtual interfaces with the interface command.
D. Configure each subinterface with its own IP address.
E. Disable split horizon to prevent routing loops between the subinterface networks.
F. Configure static Frame Relay map entries for each subinterface network.
Answer: ACD
Explanation:
For multiple PVC’s on a single interface, you must use subinterfaces, with each subinterface configured for each PVC. Each subinterface will then have its own IP
address, and no IP address will be assigned to the main interface.
Question 387
Which command allows you to verify the encapsulation type (CISCO or IETF) for a Frame Relay link?
Which command allows you to verify the encapsulation type (CISCO or IETF) for a Frame Relay link?
A. show frame-relay lmi
B. show frame-relay map
C. show frame-relay pvc
D. show interfaces serial
Answer: B
Explanation:
When connecting Cisco devices with non-Cisco devices, you must use IETF4 encapsulation on both devices. Check the encapsulation type on the Cisco device with
the show frame-relay map exec command.
Question 389
Which two statistics appear in show frame-relay map output?
Which two statistics appear in show frame-relay map output? (Choose two.)
A. the number of BECN packets that are received by the router
B. the value of the local DLCI
C. the number of FECN packets that are received by the router
D. the status of the PVC that is configured on the router
E. the IP address of the local router
Answer: BD
Explanation:
Sample “show frame-relay map” output:
R1#sh frame mapSerial0/0 (up): ip 10.4.4.1 dlci 401(0x191,0x6410), dynamic,broadcast,, status defined, activeSerial0/0 (up): ip 10.4.4.3 dlci 403(0x193,0x6430),
dynamic,broadcast,, status defined, activeSerial0/0 (up): ip 10.4.4.4 dlci 401(0x191,0x6410), static,CISCO, status defined, active
Question 390
What are three reasons that an organization with multiple branch offices and roaming users might implement a Cisco VPN solution instead of point-to-point WAN
links?
What are three reasons that an organization with multiple branch offices and roaming users might implement a Cisco VPN solution instead of point-to-point WAN
links? (Choose three.)
A. reduced cost
B. better throughput
C. broadband incompatibility
D. increased security
E. scalability
F. reduced latency
Answer: ADE
Explanation:
IPsec offer a number of advantages over point to point WAN links, particularly when multiple locations are involved. These include reduced cost, increased security
since all traffic is encrypted, and increased scalability as s single WAN link can be used to connect to all locations in a VPN, where as a point to point link would
need to be provisioned to each location.
Question 391
How should the network administrator configure the serial interface of the main office router to make the connection?
A network administrator needs to configure a serial link between the main office and a remote location. The router at the remote office is a non-Cisco router. How
should the network administrator configure the serial interface of the main office router to make the connection?
A. Main(config)# interface serial 0/0
Main(config-if)# ip address 172.16.1.1 255.255.255.252
Main(config-if)# no shut
B. Main(config)# interface serial 0/0
Main(config-if)# ip address 172.16.1.1 255.255.255.252
Main(config-if)# encapsulation ppp
Main(config-if)# no shut
C. Main(config)# interface serial 0/0
Main(config-if)# ip address 172.16.1.1 255.255.255.252
Main(config-if)# encapsulation frame-relay
Main(config-if)# authentication chap
Main(config-if)# no shut
D. Main(config)# interface serial 0/0
Main(config-if)#ip address 172.16.1.1 255.255.255.252
Main(config-if)#encapsulation ietf
Main(config-if)# no shut
Answer: B
Explanation:
With serial point to point links there are two options for the encapsulation. The default, HDLC, is Cisco proprietary and works only with other Cisco routers. The
other option is PPP which is standards based and supported by all vendors.
Question 394
Which encapsulation type is a Frame Relay encapsulation type that is supported by Cisco routers?
Which encapsulation type is a Frame Relay encapsulation type that is supported by Cisco routers?
A. IETF
B. ANSI Annex D
C. Q9333-A Annex A
D. HDLC
Answer: A
Explanation:
Cisco supports two Frame Relay encapsulation types: the Cisco encapsulation and the IETF Frame Relay encapsulation, which is in conformance with RFC 1490
and RFC 2427. The former is often used to connect two Cisco routers while the latter is used to connect a Cisco router to a non-Cisco router. You can test with your
Cisco router when typing the command Router(configif)# encapsulation frame-relay ? on a WAN link. Below is the output of this command (notice Cisco is the
default encapsulation so it is not listed here, just press Enter to use it).
Note: Three LMI options are supported by Cisco routers are ansi, Cisco, and Q933a. They represent the ANSI Annex D, Cisco, and ITU Q933-A (Annex A) LMI
types, respectively. HDLC is a WAN protocol same as Frame-Relay and PPP so it is not a Frame Relay encapsulation type.
Question 395
Which Layer 2 protocol encapsulation type supports synchronous and asynchronous circuits and has built-in security mechanisms?
Which Layer 2 protocol encapsulation type supports synchronous and asynchronous circuits and has built-in security mechanisms?
A. HDLC
B. PPP
C. X.25
D. Frame Relay
Answer: B
Explanation:
PPP: Provides router-to-router and host-to-network connections over synchronous and asynchronous circuits. PPP was designed to work with several network layer
protocols, including IP. PPP also has built-in security mechanisms, such as Password Authentication Protocol (PAP) and Challenge Handshake Authentication
Protocol (CHAP).
Question 396
Which two options are valid WAN connectivity methods?
Which two options are valid WAN connectivity methods? (Choose two.)
A. PPP
B. WAP
C. DSL
D. L2TPv3
E. Ethernet
Answer: AC
Explanation:
The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) provides a standard method for transporting multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point links. PPP was originally emerged as
an encapsulation protocol for transporting IP traffic between two peers. It is a data link layer protocol used for WAN connections.
DSL is also considered a WAN connection, as it can be used to connect networks, typically when used with VPN technology.
Question 397
Which of the following statements is true concerning this command?
The command frame-relay map ip 10.121.16.8 102 broadcast was entered on the router. Which of the following statements is true concerning this command?
A. This command should be executed from the global configuration mode.
B. The IP address 10.121.16.8 is the local router port used to forward data.
C. 102 is the remote DLCI that will receive the information.
D. This command is required for all Frame Relay configurations.
E. The broadcast option allows packets, such as RIP updates, to be forwarded across the PVC.
Answer: E
Explanation:
Broadcast is added to the configurations of the frame relay, so the PVC supports broadcast, allowing the routing protocol updates that use the broadcast update
mechanism to be forwarded across itself.
Question 398
At which layer of the OSI model does PPP perform?
At which layer of the OSI model does PPP perform?
A. Layer 2
B. Layer 3
C. Layer 4
D. Layer 5
Answer: A
Explanation:
The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) provides a standard method for transporting multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point links. PPP was originally emerged as
an encapsulation protocol for transporting IP traffic between two peers. It is a data link layer protocol (layer 2 in the OSI model )
Question 399
Which protocol is an open standard protocol framework that is commonly used in VPNs, to provide secure end-to-end communications?
Which protocol is an open standard protocol framework that is commonly used in VPNs, to provide secure end-to-end communications?
A. RSA
B. L2TP
C. IPsec
D. PPTP
Answer: C
Explanation:
IPSec is a framework of open standards that provides data confidentiality, data integrity, and data authentication between participating peers at the IP layer. IPSec
can be used to protect one or more data flows between IPSec peers.
Question 400
Which command is used to enable CHAP authentication, with PAP as the fallback method, on a serial interface?
Which command is used to enable CHAP authentication, with PAP as the fallback method, on a serial interface?
A. Router(config-if)# ppp authentication chap fallback ppp
B. Router(config-if)# ppp authentication chap pap
C. Router(config-if)# authentication ppp chap fallback ppp
D. Router(config-if)# authentication ppp chap pap
Answer: B
Explanation:
This command tells the router to first use CHAP and then go to PAP if CHAP isn’t available.
Question 401
What does this mean?
The output of the show frame-relay pvc command shows “PVC STATUS = INACTIVE”. What does this mean?
A. The PVC is configured correctly and is operating normally, but no data packets have been detected for more than five minutes.
B. The PVC is configured correctly, is operating normally, and is no longer actively seeking the address of the remote router.
C. The PVC is configured correctly, is operating normally, and is waiting for interesting traffic to trigger a call to the remote router.
D. The PVC is configured correctly on the local switch, but there is a problem on the remote end of the PVC.
E. The PVC is not configured on the local switch.
Answer: D
Explanation:
The PVC STATUS displays the status of the PVC. The DCE device creates and sends the report to the DTE devices. There are 4 statuses:
+ ACTIVE: the PVC is operational and can transmit data + INACTIVE: the connection from the local router to the switch is working, but the connection to the
remote router is not available
+ DELETED: the PVC is not present and no LMI information is being received from the Frame Relay switch
+ STATIC: the Local Management Interface (LMI) mechanism on the interface is disabled (by using the “no keepalive” command). This status is rarely seen so it is
ignored in some books.
Question 403
Which statement is correct regarding the operation of DHCP?
Which statement is correct regarding the operation of DHCP?
A. A DHCP client uses a ping to detect address conflicts.
B. A DHCP server uses a gratuitous ARP to detect DHCP clients.
C. A DHCP client uses a gratuitous ARP to detect a DHCP server.
D. If an address conflict is detected, the address is removed from the pool and an administrator must resolve the conflict.
E. If an address conflict is detected, the address is removed from the pool for an amount of time configurable by the administrator.
F. If an address conflict is detected, the address is removed from the pool and will not be reused until the server is rebooted.
Answer: D
Explanation:
An address conflict occurs when two hosts use the same IP address. During address assignment, DHCP checks for conflicts using ping and gratuitous ARP. If a
conflict is detected, the address is removed from the pool. The address will not be assigned until the administrator resolves the conflict.
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/12_1/iproute/configuration/guide/1cddhcp.html
Question 408
Which port state is introduced by Rapid-PVST?
Which port state is introduced by Rapid-PVST?
A. learning
B. listening
C. discarding
D. forwarding
Answer: C
Explanation:
PVST+ is based on IEEE802.1D Spanning Tree Protocol (STP). But PVST+ has only 3 port states (discarding, learning and forwarding) while STP has 5 port states
(blocking, listening, learning, forwarding and disabled). So discarding is a new port state in PVST+.
Question 413
What command will display the required information?
A network administrator is troubleshooting an EIGRP problem on a router and needs to confirm the IP addresses of the devices with which the router has established
adjacency. The retransmit interval and the queue counts for the adjacent routers also need to be checked. What command will display the required information?
A. Router# show ip eigrp adjacency
B. Router# show ip eigrp topology
C. Router# show ip eigrp interfaces
D. Router# show ip eigrp neighbors
Answer: D
Explanation:
Below is an example of the show ip eigrp neighbors command. The retransmit interval (Smooth Round Trip Timer – SRTT) and the queue counts (Q count, which
shows the number of queued EIGRP packets) for the adjacent routers are listed:
Question 414
What happens if you set the switchport access vlan
VLAN 3 is not yet configured on your switch. What happens if you set the switchport access vlan 3 command in interface configuration mode?
A. The command is rejected.
B. The port turns amber.
C. The command is accepted and the respective VLAN is added to vlan.dat.
D. The command is accepted and you must configure the VLAN manually.
Answer: C
Explanation:
The “switchport access vlan 3” will put that interface as belonging to VLAN 3 while also updated the VLAN database automatically to include VLAN 3.
Question 415
In which circumstance are multiple copies of the same unicast frame likely to be transmitted in a
In which circumstance are multiple copies of the same unicast frame likely to be transmitted in a switched LAN?
A. during high traffic periods
B. after broken links are re-established
C. when upper-layer protocols require high reliability
D. in an improperly implemented redundant topology
E. when a dual ring topology is in use
Answer: D
Explanation:
If we connect two switches via 2 or more links and do not enable STP on these switches then a loop (which creates multiple copies of the same unicast frame) will
occur. It is an example of an improperly implemented redundant topology.
Question 417
Which router IOS commands can be used to troubleshoot LAN connectivity problems?
Which router IOS commands can be used to troubleshoot LAN connectivity problems? (Choose three.)
A. ping
B. tracert
C. ipconfig
D. show ip route
E. winipcfg
F. show interfaces
Answer: ADF
Explanation:
Ping, show ip route, and show interfaces are all valid troubleshooting IOS commands. Tracert, ipconfig, and winipcfg are PC commands, not IOS.
Question 419
What will happen if a private IP address is assigned to a public interface connected to an ISP?
What will happen if a private IP address is assigned to a public interface connected to an ISP?
A. Addresses in a private range will be not be routed on the Internet backbone.
B. Only the ISP router will have the capability to access the public network.
C. The NAT process will be used to translate this address to a valid IP address.
D. A conflict of IP addresses happens, because other public routers can use the same range.
Answer: A
Explanation:
Private RFC 1918 IP addresses are meant to be used by organizations locally within their own network only, and can not be used globally for Internet use.
Question 424
What will happen in this scenario?
Cisco Catalyst switches CAT1 and CAT2 have a connection between them using ports FA0/13.
An 802.1Q trunk is configured between the two switches. On CAT1, VLAN 10 is chosen as native, but on CAT2 the native VLAN is not specified. What will happen
in this scenario?
A. 802.1Q giants frames could saturate the link.
B. VLAN 10 on CAT1 and VLAN 1 on CAT2 will send untagged frames.
C. A native VLAN mismatch error message will appear.
D. VLAN 10 on CAT1 and VLAN 1 on CAT2 will send tagged frames.
Answer: C
Explanation:
A “native VLAN mismatch” error will appear by CDP if there is a native VLAN mismatch on an 802.1Q link. “VLAN mismatch” can cause traffic from one vlan to
leak into another vlan.
Question 425
What is required for RouterA to exchange routing updates with RouterC?
Refer to the exhibit. When running EIGRP, what is required for RouterA to exchange routing updates with RouterC?
A. AS numbers must be changed to match on all the routers
B. Loopback interfaces must be configured so a DR is elected
C. The no auto-summary command is needed on Router A and Router C
D. Router B needs to have two network statements, one for each connected network
Answer: A
Explanation:
This question is to examine the understanding of the interaction between EIGRP routers. The following information must be matched so as to create neighborhood.
EIGRP routers to establish, must match the following information:
1. AS Number;
2. K value.
Question 426
Which of the following are true?
Host 1 is trying to communicate with Host 2. The e0 interface on Router C is down. Which of the following are true? (Choose two.)
A. Router C will use ICMP to inform Host 1 that Host 2 cannot be reached.
B. Router C will use ICMP to inform Router B that Host 2 cannot be reached.
C. Router C will use ICMP to inform Host 1, Router A, and Router B that Host 2 cannot be reached.
D. Router C will send a Destination Unreachable message type.
E. Router C will send a Router Selection message type.
F. Router C will send a Source Quench message type.
Answer: AD
Explanation:
Host 1 is trying to communicate with Host 2. The e0 interface on Router C is down. Router C will send ICMP packets to inform Host 1 that Host 2 cannot be reached.
Question 427
When you are troubleshooting an ACL issue on a router, which command would you use to verify which interfaces are affected by the ACL?
When you are troubleshooting an ACL issue on a router, which command would you use to verify which interfaces are affected by the ACL?
A. show ip access-lists
B. show access-lists
C. show interface
D. show ip interface
E. list ip interface
Answer: D
Explanation:
Incorrect answer:
show ip access-lists does not show interfaces affected by an ACL.
Question 428
Which Cisco Catalyst feature automatically disables the port in an operational PortFast upon receipt of a BPDU?
Which Cisco Catalyst feature automatically disables the port in an operational PortFast upon receipt of a BPDU?
A. BackboneFast
B. UplinkFast
C. Root Guard
D. BPDU Guard
E. BPDU Filter
Answer: D
Explanation:
We only enable PortFast feature on access ports (ports connected to end stations). But if someone does not know he can accidentally plug that port to another switch
and a loop may occur when BPDUs are being transmitted and received on these ports. With BPDU Guard, when a PortFast receives a BPDU, it will be shut down to
prevent a loop.
Question 429
What configuration error is causing this problem?
A network administrator is trying to add a new router into an established OSPF network. The networks attached to the new router do not appear in the routing tables
of the other OSPF routers. Given the information in the partial configuration shown below, what configuration error is causing this problem?
Router(config)# router ospf 1
Router(config-router)# network 10.0.0.0 255.0.0.0 area 0
A. The process id is configured improperly.
B. The OSPF area is configured improperly.
C. The network wildcard mask is configured improperly.
D. The network number is configured improperly.
E. The AS is configured improperly.
F. The network subnet mask is configured improperly.
Answer: C
Explanation:
When configuring OSPF, the mask used for the network statement is a wildcard mask similar to an access list. In this specific example, the correct syntax would have
been “network 10.0.0.0 0.0.0.255 area 0.”
Question 431
How can you accomplish this task, using the fewest physical interfaces and without decreasing network performance?
A router has two Fast Ethernet interfaces and needs to connect to four VLANs in the local network. How can you accomplish this task, using the fewest physical
interfaces and without decreasing network performance?
A. Use a hub to connect the four VLANS with a Fast Ethernet interface on the router.
B. Add a second router to handle the VLAN traffic.
C. Add two more Fast Ethernet interfaces.
D. Implement a router-on-a-stick configuration.
Answer: D
Explanation:
A router on a stick allows you to use sub-interfaces to create multiple logical networks on a single physical interface.
Question 435
Which of the following commands should be issued on Switch1 to correct this problem?
The network administrator cannot connect to Switch1 over a Telnet session, although the hosts attached to Switch1 can ping the interface Fa0/0 of the router. Given
the information in the graphic and assuming that the router and Switch2 are configured properly, which of the following commands should be issued on Switch1 to
correct this problem?
A. Switch1(config)# line con0
Switch1(config-line)# password cisco
Switch1(config-line)#login
B. Switch1(config)# interface fa0/1
Switch1(config-if)# ip address 192.168.24.3 255.255.255.0
C. Switch1(config)# ip default-gateway 192.168.24.1
D. Switch1(config)# interface fa0/1
Switch1(config-if)# duplex full
Switch1(config-if)# speed 100
E. Switch1(config)# interface fa0/1
Switch1(config-if)# switchport mode trunk
Answer: C
Explanation:
Since we know hosts can reach the router through the switch, we know that connectivity, duplex.
Speed, etc. are good. However, for the switch itself to reach networks outside the local one, the ip default-gateway command must be used.
Question 436
What will be the result if the following configuration commands are implemented on a Cisco switch?
What will be the result if the following configuration commands are implemented on a Cisco switch?
Switch(config-if)# switchport port-security
Switch(config-if)# switchport port-security mac-address sticky
A. A dynamically learned MAC address is saved in the startup-configuration file.
B. A dynamically learned MAC address is saved in the running-configuration file.
C. A dynamically learned MAC address is saved in the VLAN database.
D. Statically configured MAC addresses are saved in the startup-configuration file if frames from that address are received.
E. Statically configured MAC addresses are saved in the running-configuration file if frames from that address are received.
Answer: B
Explanation:
In the interface configuration mode, the command switchport port-security mac-address sticky enables sticky learning. When entering this command, the interface
converts all the dynamic secure MAC addresses to sticky secure MAC addresses.
Question 438
Which two commands correctly verify whether port security has been configured on port FastEthernet 0/12 on a switch?
Which two commands correctly verify whether port security has been configured on port FastEthernet 0/12 on a switch? (Choose two.)
A. SW1#show port-secure interface FastEthernet 0/12
B. SW1#show switchport port-secure interface FastEthernet 0/12
C. SW1#show running-config
D. SW1#show port-security interface FastEthernet 0/12
E. SW1#show switchport port-security interface FastEthernet 0/12
Answer: CD
Explanation:
We can verify whether port security has been configured by using the “show running-config” or “show port-security interface ” for more detail. An example of the
output of “show port-security interface ” command is shown below:
Question 439
What can be done to secure the virtual terminal interfaces on a router?
What can be done to secure the virtual terminal interfaces on a router? (Choose two.)
A. Administratively shut down the interface.
B. Physically secure the interface.
C. Create an access list and apply it to the virtual terminal interfaces with the access-group command.
D. Configure a virtual terminal password and login process.
E. Enter an access list and apply it to the virtual terminal interfaces using the access-class command.
Answer: DE
Explanation:
It is a waste to administratively shut down the interface. Moreover, someone can still access the virtual terminal interfaces via other interfaces ->
We can not physically secure a virtual interface because it is “virtual” -> To apply an access list to a virtual terminal interface we must use the “access-class”
command. The “access-group” command is only used to apply an access list to a physical interface -> C is not correct.
The most simple way to secure the virtual terminal interface is to configure a username & password to prevent unauthorized login.
Question 440
When combined, would you use to accomplish this task?
A network administrator is configuring ACLs on a Cisco router, to allow traffic from hosts on networks 192.168.146.0, 192.168.147.0, 192.168.148.0, and
192.168.149.0 only. Which two ACL statements, when combined, would you use to accomplish this task? (Choose two.)
A. access-list 10 permit ip 192.168.146.0 0.0.1.255
B. access-list 10 permit ip 192.168.147.0 0.0.255.255
C. access-list 10 permit ip 192.168.148.0 0.0.1.255
D. access-list 10 permit ip 192.168.149.0 0.0.255.255
E. access-list 10 permit ip 192.168.146.0 0.0.0.255
F. access-list 10 permit ip 192.168.146.0 255.255.255.0
Answer: AC
Explanation:
access-list 10 permit ip 192.168.146.0 0.0.1.255 will include the 192.168.146.0 and 192.168.147.0 subnets, while access-list 10 permit ip 192.168.148.0 0.0.1.255
will include
Question 441
Which item represents the standard IP ACL?
Which item represents the standard IP ACL?
A. access-list 110 permit ip any any
B. access-list 50 deny 192.168.1.1 0.0.0.255
C. access list 101 deny tcp any host 192.168.1.1
D. access-list 2500 deny tcp any host 192.168.1.1 eq 22
Answer: B
Explanation:
The standard access lists are ranged from 1 to 99 and from 1300 to 1999 so only access list 50 is a standard access list.
Question 442
Which statement about access lists that are applied to an interface is true?
Which statement about access lists that are applied to an interface is true?
A. You can place as many access lists as you want on any interface.
B. You can apply only one access list on any interface.
C. You can configure one access list, per direction, per Layer 3 protocol.
D. You can apply multiple access lists with the same protocol or in different directions.
Answer: C
Explanation:
We can have only 1 access list per protocol, per direction and per interface. It means:
+ We can not have 2 inbound access lists on an interface + We can have 1 inbound and 1 outbound access list on an interface
Question 443
Which two statements about static NAT translations are true?
Which two statements about static NAT translations are true? (Choose two.)
A. They allow connections to be initiated from the outside.
B. They require no inside or outside interface markings because addresses are statically defined.
C. They are always present in the NAT table.
D. They can be configured with access lists, to allow two or more connections to be initiated from the outside.
Answer: AC
Explanation:
Static NAT is to map a single outside IP address to a single inside IP address. This is typically done to allow incoming connections from the outside (Internet) to the
inside. Since these are static, they are always present in the NAT table even if they are not actively in use.
Question 444
When a DHCP server is configured, which two IP addresses should never be assignable to hosts?
When a DHCP server is configured, which two IP addresses should never be assignable to hosts? (Choose two.)
A. network or subnetwork IP address
B. broadcast address on the network
C. IP address leased to the LAN
D. IP address used by the interfaces
E. manually assigned address to the clients
F. designated IP address to the DHCP server
Answer: AB
Explanation:
Network or subnetwork IP address (for example 11.0.0.0/8 or 13.1.0.0/16) and broadcast address (for example 23.2.1.255/24) should never be assignable to hosts.
When try to assign these addresses to hosts, you will receive an error message saying that they can’t be assignable.
Question 446
Which two tasks does the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol perform?
Which two tasks does the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol perform? (Choose two.)
A. Set the IP gateway to be used by the network.
B. Perform host discovery used DHCPDISCOVER message.
C. Configure IP address parameters from DHCP server to a host.
D. Provide an easy management of layer 3 devices.
E. Monitor IP performance using the DHCP server.
F. Assign and renew IP address from the default pool.
Answer: CF
Explanation:
The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a network protocol used to configure devices that are connected to a network (known as hosts) so they can
communicate on that network using the Internet Protocol (IP). It involves clients and a server operating in a clientserver model. DHCP servers assigns IP addresses
from a pool of addresses and also assigns other parameters such as DNS and default gateways to hosts.
Question 448
How does a DHCP server dynamically assign IP addresses to hosts?
How does a DHCP server dynamically assign IP addresses to hosts?
A. Addresses are permanently assigned so that the host uses the same address at all times.
B. Addresses are assigned for a fixed period of time. At the end of the period, a new request for an address must be made, and another address is then assigned.
C. Addresses are leased to hosts. A host will usually keep the same address by periodically contacting the DHCP server to renew the lease.
D. Addresses are allocated after a negotiation between the server and the host to determine the length of the agreement.
Answer: C
Explanation:
DHCP works in a client/server mode and operates like any other client/server relationship. When a PC connects to a DHCP server, the server assigns or leases an IP
address to that PC. The PC connects to the network with that leased IP address until the lease expires. The host must contact the DHCP server periodically to extend
the lease. This lease mechanism ensures that hosts that move or power off do not hold onto addresses that they do not need. The DHCP server returns these addresses
to the address pool and reallocates them as necessary.
Question 449
Which ACL can be used?
A network engineer wants to allow a temporary entry for a remote user with a specific username and password so that the user can access the entire network over the
Internet. Which ACL can be used?
A. standard
B. extended
C. dynamic
D. reflexive
Answer: C
Explanation:
We can use a dynamic access list to authenticate a remote user with a specific username and password. The authentication process is done by the router or a central
access server such as a TACACS+ or RADIUS server. The configuration of dynamic ACL can be read here:
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/tech/tk583/tk822/technologies_tech_note09186a0080094524.shtml
Question 450
On which options are standard access lists based?
On which options are standard access lists based?
A. destination address and wildcard mask
B. destination address and subnet mask
C. source address and subnet mask
D. source address and wildcard mask
Answer: D
Explanation:
Standard ACL’s only examine the source IP address/mask to determine if a match is made.
Extended ACL’s examine the source and destination address, as well as port information.
Question 451
What are two benefits of using NAT?
What are two benefits of using NAT? (Choose two.)
A. NAT facilitates end-to-end communication when IPsec is enabled.
B. NAT eliminates the need to re-address all hosts that require external access.
C. NAT conserves addresses through host MAC-level multiplexing.
D. Dynamic NAT facilitates connections from the outside of the network.
E. NAT accelerates the routing process because no modifications are made on the packets.
F. NAT protects network security because private networks are not advertised.
Answer: BF
Explanation:
By not revealing the internal Ip addresses, NAT adds some security to the inside network -> F is correct.
NAT has to modify the source IP addresses in the packets -> E is not correct.
Connection from the outside of the network through a “NAT” network is more difficult than a more network because IP addresses of inside hosts are hidden -> C is
not correct.
In order for IPsec to work with NAT we need to allow additional protocols, including Internet Key Exchange (IKE), Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and
Authentication Header (AH) -> more complex -> A is not correct.
By allocating specific public IP addresses to inside hosts, NAT eliminates the need to re-address the inside hosts -> B is correct.
NAT does conserve addresses but not through host MAC-level multiplexing. It conserves addresses by allowing many private IP addresses to use the same public IP
address to go to the Internet -> C is not correct.
Question 452
Which statement describes the process of dynamically assigning IP addresses by the DHCP server?
Which statement describes the process of dynamically assigning IP addresses by the DHCP server?
A. Addresses are allocated after a negotiation between the server and the host to determine the length of the agreement.
B. Addresses are permanently assigned so that the hosts uses the same address at all times.
C. Addresses are assigned for a fixed period of time, at the end of the period, a new request for an address must be made.
D. Addresses are leased to hosts, which periodically contact the DHCP server to renew the lease.
Answer: D
Explanation:
The DHCP lifecycle consists of the following:
Release: The client may decide at any time that it no longer wishes to use the IP address it was assigned, and may terminate the lease, releasing the IP address.
Question 453
Which type of EIGRP route entry describes a feasible successor?
Which type of EIGRP route entry describes a feasible successor?
A. a backup route, stored in the routing table
B. a primary route, stored in the routing table
C. a backup route, stored in the topology table
D. a primary route, stored in the topology table
Answer: C
Explanation:
EIGRP uses the Neighbor Table to list adjacent routers. The Topology Table list all the learned routers to destination whilst the Routing Table contains the best route
to a destination, which is known as the Successor. The Feasible Successor is a backup route to a destination which is kept in the Topology Table.

Question 455
Which command shows your active Telnet connections?
Which command shows your active Telnet connections?
A. show cdp neigbors
B. show session
C. show users
D. show vty logins
Answer: B
Explanation:
The “show users” shows telnet/ssh connections to your router while “show sessions” shows telnet/ssh connections from your router (to other devices). The question
asks about “your active Telnet connections”, meaning connections from your router so the answer should be A.
Question 456
What is the default maximum number of equal-cost paths that can be placed into the routing table of a Cisco OSPF router?
What is the default maximum number of equal-cost paths that can be placed into the routing table of a Cisco OSPF router?
A. 2
B. 4
C. 16
D. unlimited
Answer: B
Explanation:
To control the maximum number of parallel routes that Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) can support, use the maximum-paths command.
Syntax Description maximum
Maximum number of parallel routes that OSPF can install in a routing table. The range is from 1 to 16 routes.
Command Default
8 paths
Question 457
What will the router consider the most reliable information about the path to that network?
A router receives information about network 192.168.10.0/24 from multiple sources. What will the router consider the most reliable information about the path to that
network?
A. a directly connected interface with an address of 192.168.10.254/24
B. a static route to network 192.168.10.0/24
C. a RIP update for network 192.168.10.0/24
D. an OSPF update for network 192.168.0.0/16
E. a default route with a next hop address of 192.168.10.1
F. a static route to network 192.168.10.0/24 with a local serial interface configured as the next hop
Answer: A
Explanation:
When there is more than one way to reach a destination, it will choose the best one based on a couple of things. First, it will choose the route that has the longest
match; meaning the most specific route. So, in this case the /24 routes will be chosen over the /16 routes. Next, from all the /24 routes it will choose the one with the
lowest administrative distance. Directly connected routes have an AD of 1 so this will be the route chosen.
Question 458
Which commands are required to properly configure a router to run OSPF and to add network 192.168.16.0/24 to OSPF area 0?
Which commands are required to properly configure a router to run OSPF and to add network 192.168.16.0/24 to OSPF area 0? (Choose two.)
A. Router(config)# router ospf 0
B. Router(config)# router ospf 1
C. Router(config)# router ospf area 0
D. Router(config-router)# network 192.168.16.0 0.0.0.255 0
E. Router(config-router)# network 192.168.16.0 0.0.0.255 area 0
F. Router(config-router)# network 192.168.16.0 255.255.255.0 area 0
Answer: BE
Explanation:
In the router ospf command, the ranges from 1 to 65535 so o is an invalid number -> but To configure OSPF, we need a wildcard in the “network” statement, not a
subnet mask. We also need to assgin an area to this process -> .
Question 459
Which three elements must be used when you configure a router interface for VLAN trunking?
Which three elements must be used when you configure a router interface for VLAN trunking? (Choose three.)
A. one physical interface for each subinterface
B. one IP network or subnetwork for each subinterface
C. a management domain for each subinterface
D. subinterface encapsulation identifiers that match VLAN tags
E. one subinterface per VLAN
F. subinterface numbering that matches VLAN tags
Answer: BDE
Explanation:
This scenario is commonly called a router on a stick. A short, well written article on this operation can be found here:
http://www.thebryantadvantage.com/RouterOnAStickCCNACertificationExamTutorial.htm
Question 463
Which two statements describe the process identifier that is used in the command to configure OSPF on a router?
Which two statements describe the process identifier that is used in the command to configure OSPF on a router? (Choose two.)
Router(config)# router ospf 1
A. All OSPF routers in an area must have the same process ID
B. Only one process number can be used on the same router.
C. Different process identifiers can be used to run multiple OSPF processes
D. The process number can be any number from 1 to 65,535.
E. Hello packets are sent to each neighbor to determine the processor identifier.
Answer: CD
Explanation:
Multiple OSPF processes can be configured on a router using multiple process ID’s.
The valid process ID’s are shown below:
Edge-B(config)#router ospf ?
Process ID
Question 465
Which two locations can be configured as a source for the IOS image in the boot system command?
Which two locations can be configured as a source for the IOS image in the boot system command? (Choose two.)
A. RAM
B. NVRAM
C. flash memory
D. HTTP server
E. TFTP server
F. Telnet server
Answer: CE
Explanation:
The following locations can be configured as a source for the IOS image:
1. + Flash (the default location)
2. + TFTP server
3. + ROM (used if no other source is found)
Question 470
Which command would you configure globally on a Cisco router that would allow you to view directly connected Cisco devices?
Which command would you configure globally on a Cisco router that would allow you to view directly connected Cisco devices?
A. enable cdp
B. cdp enable
C. cdp run
D. run cdp
Answer: C
Explanation:
CDP is enabled on Cisco routers by default. If you prefer not to use the CDP capability, disable it with the no cdp run command. In order to reenable CDP, use the
cdp run command in global configuration mode. The “cdp enable” command is an interface command, not global.
Question 473
Which characteristics are representative of a link-state routing protocol?
Which characteristics are representative of a link-state routing protocol? (Choose three.)
A. provides common view of entire topology
B. exchanges routing tables with neighbors
C. calculates shortest path
D. utilizes event-triggered updates
E. utilizes frequent periodic updates
Answer: ACD
Explanation:
Each of routers running link-state routing protocol learns paths to all the destinations in its “area” so we can say although it is a bit unclear.
Link-state routing protocols generate routing updates only (not the whole routing table) when a change occurs in the network topology so Link-state routing protocol
like OSPF uses Dijkstra algorithm to calculate the shortest path -> .
Unlike Distance vector routing protocol (which utilizes frequent periodic updates), link-state routing protocol utilizes event-triggered updates (only sends update
when a change occurs) ->
Question 474
What is the default administrative distance of OSPF?
What is the default administrative distance of OSPF?
A. 90
B. 100
C. 110
D. 120
Answer: C
Explanation:
Administrative distance is the feature that routers use in order to select the best path when there are two or more different routes to the same destination from two
different routing protocols.
Administrative distance defines the reliability of a routing protocol. Each routing protocol is prioritized in order of most to least reliable (believable) with the help of
an administrative distance value.
Default Distance Value Table
This table lists the administrative distance default values of the protocols that Cisco supports:
Route Source
Default Distance Values
Connected interface
Static route
Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) summary route External Border Gateway
Protocol (BGP)
Internal EIGRP
IGRP
OSPF
Intermediate System-to-Intermediate System (IS-IS)
Routing Information Protocol (RIP)
Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP)
On Demand Routing (ODR)
External EIGRP
Internal BGP
Unknown*
Question 477
Which statements describe the routing protocol OSPF?
Which statements describe the routing protocol OSPF? (Choose three.)
A. It supports VLSM.
B. It is used to route between autonomous systems.
C. It confines network instability to one area of the network.
D. It increases routing overhead on the network.
E. It allows extensive control of routing updates.
F. It is simpler to configure than RIP v2.
Answer: ACE
Explanation:
The OSPF protocol is based on link-state technology, which is a departure from the Bellman-Ford vector based algorithms used in traditional Internet routing
protocols such as RIP. OSPF has introduced new concepts such as authentication of routing updates, Variable Length Subnet Masks (VLSM), route summarization,
and so forth.
OSPF uses flooding to exchange link-state updates between routers. Any change in routing information is flooded to all routers in the network. Areas are introduced
to put a boundary on the explosion of link-state updates. Flooding and calculation of the Dijkstra algorithm on a router is limited to changes within an area.
Question 478
What information does a router running a link-state protocol use to build and maintain its topological database?
What information does a router running a link-state protocol use to build and maintain its topological database? (Choose two.)
A. hello packets
B. SAP messages sent by other routers
C. LSAs from other routers
D. beacons received on point-to-point links
E. routing tables received from other link-state routers
F. TTL packets from designated routers
Answer: AC
Explanation:
Neighbor discovery is the first step in getting a link state environment up and running. In keeping with the friendly neighbor terminology, a Hello protocol is used for
this step. The protocol will define a Hello packet format and a procedure for exchanging the packets and processing the information the packets contain.
After the adjacencies are established, the routers may begin sending out LSAs. As the term flooding implies, the advertisements are sent to every neighbor. In turn,
each received LSA is copied and forwarded to every neighbor except the one that sent the LSA.
Question 479
Which command would you use on a Cisco router to verify the Layer 3 path to a host?
Which command would you use on a Cisco router to verify the Layer 3 path to a host?
A. tracert address
B. traceroute address
C. telnet address
D. ssh address
Answer: B
Explanation:
In computing, traceroute is a computer network diagnostic tool for displaying the route (path) and measuring transit delays of packets across an Internet Protocol
(IP) network. The history of the route is recorded as the round-trip times of the packets received from each successive host (remote node) in the route (path); the sum
of the mean times in each hop indicates the total time spent to establish the connection. Traceroute proceeds unless all (three) sent packets are lost more than twice,
then the connection is lost and the route cannot be evaluated. Ping, on the other hand, only computes the final round-trip times from the destination point.
Question 480
Which command reveals the last method used to powercycle a router?
Which command reveals the last method used to powercycle a router?
A. show reload
B. show boot
C. show running-config
D. show version
Answer: D
Explanation:
The “show version” command can be used to show the last method to powercycle (reset) a router
Question 481
What should be checked on the router, and which command should be used to gather this information?
Before installing a new, upgraded version of the IOS, what should be checked on the router, and which command should be used to gather this information? (Choose
two.)
A. the amount of available ROM
B. the amount of available flash and RAM memory
C. the version of the bootstrap software present on the router
D. show version
E. show processes
F. show running-config
Answer: BD
Explanation:
When upgrading new version of the IOS we need to copy the IOS to the Flash so first we have to check if the Flash has enough memory or not. Also running the new
IOS may require more RAM than the older one so we should check the available RAM too. We can check both with the “show version” command.
Question 485
Which parameter would you tune to affect the selection of a static route as a backup, when a dynamic protocol is also being used?
Which parameter would you tune to affect the selection of a static route as a backup, when a dynamic protocol is also being used?
A. hop count
B. administrative distance
C. link bandwidth
D. link delay
E. link cost
Answer: B
Explanation:
By default the administrative distance of a static route is 1, meaning it will be preferred over all dynamic routing protocols. If you want to have the dynamic routing
protocol used and have the static route be used only as a backup, you need to increase the AD of the static route so that it is higher than the dynamic routing
protocol.
Question 487
Which two commands set the gateway of last resort to the default gateway?
If IP routing is enabled, which two commands set the gateway of last resort to the default gateway? (Choose two.)
A. ip default-gateway 0.0.0.0
B. ip route 172.16.2.1 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0
C. ip default-network 0.0.0.0
D. ip default-route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 172.16.2.1
E. ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 172.16.2.1
Answer: CE
Explanation:
Both the “ip default-network” and “ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 (next hop)” commands can be used to set the default gateway in a Cisco router.
Question 489
Which command is used to display the collection of OSPF link states?
Which command is used to display the collection of OSPF link states?
A. show ip ospf link-state
B. show ip ospf lsa database
C. show ip ospf neighbors
D. show ip ospf database
Answer: D
Explanation:
The “show ip ospf database” command displays the link states. Here is an example:
Here is the lsa database on R2.
R2#show ip ospf database
OSPF Router with ID (2.2.2.2) (Process ID 1)
Router Link States (Area 0)
Link ID ADV Router Age Seq# Checksum Link count2.2.2.2 2.2.2.2 793 0x80000003 0x004F85 210.4.4.4 10.4.4.4 776 0x80000004 0x005643 1111.111.111.111
111.111.111.111 755 0x80000005 0x0059CA 2133.133.133.133 133.133.133.133 775 0x80000005 0x00B5B1 2 Net
Link States (Area 0)
Link ID ADV Router Age Seq# Checksum10.1.1.1 111.111.111.111 794 0x80000001 0x001E8B10.2.2.3 133.133.133.133 812 0x80000001 0x004BA910.4.4.1
111.111.111.111 755 0x80000001 0x007F1610.4.4.3 133.133.133.133 775 0x80000001 0x00C31F
Question 490
What two things will a router do when running a distance vector routing protocol?
What two things will a router do when running a distance vector routing protocol? (Choose two.)
A. Send periodic updates regardless of topology changes.
B. Send entire routing table to all routers in the routing domain.
C. Use the shortest-path algorithm to the determine best path.
D. Update the routing table based on updates from their neighbors.
E. Maintain the topology of the entire network in its database.
Answer: AD
Explanation:
Distance means how far and Vector means in which direction. Distance Vector routing protocols pass periodic copies of routing table to neighbor routers and
accumulate distance vectors. In distance vector routing protocols, routers discover the best path to destination from each neighbor. The routing updates proceed step
by step from router to router.
Question 491
Which command displays CPU utilization?
Which command displays CPU utilization?
A. show protocols
B. show process
C. show system
D. show version
Answer: B
Explanation:
The “show process” (in fact, the full command is “show processes”) command gives us lots of information about each process but in fact it is not easy to read. Below
shows the output of this command (some next pages are omitted)
A more friendly way to check the CPU utilization is the command “show processes cpu history”, in which the total CPU usage on the router over a period of time:
one minute, one hour, and 72 hours are clearly shown:
+ The Y-axis of the graph is the CPU utilization.+ The X-axis of the graph is the increment within the period displayed in the graph
For example, from the last graph (last 72 hours) we learn that the highest CPU utilization within 72 hours is 37% about six hours ago.
Question 492
What is needed to allow communication between the VLANs?
On a corporate network, hosts on the same VLAN can communicate with each other, but they are unable to communicate with hosts on different VLANs. What is
needed to allow communication between the VLANs?
A. a router with subinterfaces configured on the physical interface that is connected to the switch
B. a router with an IP address on the physical interface connected to the switch
C. a switch with an access link that is configured between the switches
D. a switch with a trunk link that is configured between the switches
Answer: A
Explanation:
Different VLANs can’t communicate with each other , they can communicate with the help of Layer3 router. Hence , it is needed to connect a router to a switch , then
make the sub-interface on the router to connect to the switch, establishing Trunking links to achieve communications of devices which belong to different VLANs.
When using VLANs in networks that have multiple interconnected switches, you need to use VLAN trunking between the switches. With VLAN trunking, the switches
tag each frame sent between switches so that the receiving switch knows to what VLAN the frame belongs. End user devices connect to switch ports that provide
simple connectivity to a single VLAN each. The attached devices are unaware of any VLAN structure.
By default, only hosts that are members of the same VLAN can communicate. To change this and allow inter-VLAN communication, you need a router or a layer 3
switch.
Here is the example of configuring the router for inter-vlan communication RouterA(config)#int f0/0.1
RouterA(config-subif)#encapsulation ?
dot1Q IEEE 802.1Q Virtual LAN
RouterA(config-subif)#encapsulation dot1Q or isl VLAN ID RouterA(config-subif)# ip address x.x.x.x y.y.y.y
Question 494
What function does the router perform next?
A Cisco router is booting and has just completed the POST process. It is now ready to find and load an IOS image. What function does the router perform next?
A. It checks the configuration register.
B. It attempts to boot from a TFTP server.
C. It loads the first image file in flash memory.
D. It inspects the configuration file in NVRAM for boot instructions.
Answer: A
Explanation:
Default (normal) Boot SequencePower on Router – Router does POST – Bootstrap starts IOS load
– Check configuration registerto see what mode the router should boot up in (usually 0x2102 to read startup-config in NVRAM / or 0x2142 to start in “setup-mode”)
– check the startup-config file in NVRAM for boot-system commands – load IOS from Flash.
Question 495
Which IP addressing scheme defines the address range and subnet mask that meet the requirement and waste the fewest subnet and host addresses?
The network administrator is asked to configure 113 point-to-point links. Which IP addressing scheme defines the address range and subnet mask that meet the
requirement and waste the fewest subnet and host addresses?
A. 10.10.0.0/16 subnetted with mask 255.255.255.252
B. 10.10.0.0/18 subnetted with mask 255.255.255.252
C. 10.10.1.0/24 subnetted with mask 255.255.255.252
D. 10.10.0.0/23 subnetted with mask 255.255.255.252
E. 10.10.1.0/25 subnetted with mask 255.255.255.252
Answer: D
Explanation:
We need 113 point-to-point links which equal to 113 sub-networks < 128 so we need to borrow 7 bits (because 2^7 = 128).
The network used for point-to-point connection should be /30.
So our initial network should be 30 ?7 = 23.
So 10.10.0.0/23 is the correct answer.
You can understand it more clearly when writing it in binary form:
/23 = 1111 1111.1111 1110.0000 0000
/30 = 1111 1111.1111 1111.1111 1100 (borrow 7 bits)
Question 496
Which of these represents an IPv6 link-local address?
Which of these represents an IPv6 link-local address?
A. FE80::380e:611a:e14f:3d69
B. FE81::280f:512b:e14f:3d69
C. FEFE:0345:5f1b::e14d:3d69
D. FE08::280e:611:a:f14f:3d69
Answer: A
Explanation:
In the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6), the address block fe80::/10 has been reserved for link-local unicast addressing. The actual link local addresses are
assigned with the prefix fe80::/64.
They may be assigned by automatic (stateless) or stateful (e.g. manual) mechanisms.
Question 497
Which command can you use to manually assign a static IPv6 address to a router interface?
Which command can you use to manually assign a static IPv6 address to a router interface?
A. ipv6 autoconfig 2001:db8:2222:7272::72/64
B. ipv6 address 2001:db8:2222:7272::72/64
C. ipv6 address PREFIX_1 ::1/64
D. ipv6 autoconfig
Answer: B
Explanation:
To assign an IPv6 address to an interface, use the “ipv6 address” command and specify the IP address you wish to use.
Question 498
Which IPv6 address is valid?
Which IPv6 address is valid?
A. 2001:0db8:0000:130F:0000:0000:08GC:140B
B. 2001:0db8:0:130H::87C:140B
C. 2031::130F::9C0:876A:130B
D. 2031:0:130F::9C0:876A:130B
Answer: D
Explanation:
An IPv6 address is represented as eight groups of four hexadecimal digits, each group representing 16 bits (two octets). The groups are separated by colons (:). An
example of an IPv6 address is 2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334. The leading 0’s in a group can be collapsed using ::, but this can only be done once in
an IP address.
Question 500
Which IPv6 address is the all-router multicast group?
Which IPv6 address is the all-router multicast group?
A. FF02::1
B. FF02::2
C. FF02::3
D. FF02::4
Answer: B
Explanation:
Well-known IPv6 multicast addresses:
Address
Description
ff02::1
All nodes on the local network segment
ff02::2
All routers on the local network segment
Question 502
Which of the following subnet masks will support an appropriate addressing scheme?
A national retail chain needs to design an IP addressing scheme to support a nationwide network.
The company needs a minimum of 300 sub-networks and a maximum of 50 host addresses per subnet. Working with only one Class B address, which of the
following subnet masks will support an appropriate addressing scheme? (Choose two.)
A. 255.255.255.0
B. 255.255.255.128
C. 255.255.252.0
D. 255.255.255.224
E. 255.255.255.192
F. 255.255.248.0
Answer: BE
Explanation:
Subnetting is used to break the network into smaller more efficient subnets to prevent excessive rates of Ethernet packet collision in a large network. Such subnets
can be arranged hierarchically, with the organization’s network address space (see also Autonomous System) partitioned into a tree-like structure. Routers are used
to manage traffic and constitute borders between subnets. A routing prefix is the sequence of leading bits of an IP address that precede the portion of the address
used as host identifier. In IPv4 networks, the routing prefix is often expressed as a “subnet mask”, which is a bit mask covering the number of bits used in the prefix.
An IPv4 subnet mask is frequently expressed in quad-dotted decimal representation, e.g., 255.255.255.0 is the subnet mask for the 192.168.1.0 network with a 24-bit
routing prefix (192.168.1.0/24).
Question 503
Which three are characteristics of an IPv6 anycast address?
Which three are characteristics of an IPv6 anycast address? (Choose three.)
A. one-to-many communication model
B. one-to-nearest communication model
C. any-to-many communication model
D. a unique IPv6 address for each device in the group
E. the same address for multiple devices in the group
F. delivery of packets to the group interface that is closest to the sending device
Answer: BEF
Explanation:
A new address type made specifically for IPv6 is called the Anycast Address. These IPv6 addresses are global addresses, these addresses can be assigned to more
than one interface unlike an IPv6 unicast address. Anycast is designed to send a packet to the nearest interface that is apart of that anycast group.
The sender creates a packet and forwards the packet to the anycast address as the destination address which goes to the nearest router. The nearest router or
interface is found by using the metric of a routing protocol currently running on the network. However in a LAN setting the nearest interface is found depending on
the order the neighbors were learned. The anycast packet in a LAN setting forwards the packet to the neighbor it learned about first.
Question 504
Which option is a valid IPv6 address?
Which option is a valid IPv6 address?
A. 2001:0000:130F::099a::12a
B. 2002:7654:A1AD:61:81AF:CCC1
C. FEC0:ABCD:WXYZ:0067::2A4
D. 2004:1:25A4:886F::1
Answer: D
Explanation:
An IPv6 address is represented as eight groups of four hexadecimal digits, each group representing 16 bits (two octets). The groups are separated by colons (:). An
example of an IPv6 address is 2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334. The leading 0’s in a group can be collapsed using ::, but this can only be done once in
an IP address.
Question 506
How is an EUI-64 format interface ID created from a 48-bit MAC address?
How is an EUI-64 format interface ID created from a 48-bit MAC address?
A. by appending 0xFF to the MAC address
B. by prefixing the MAC address with 0xFFEE
C. by prefixing the MAC address with 0xFF and appending 0xFF to it
D. by inserting 0xFFFE between the upper three bytes and the lower three bytes of the MAC address
E. by prefixing the MAC address with 0xF and inserting 0xF after each of its first three bytes
Answer: D
Explanation:
The modified EUI-64 format interface identifier is derived from the 48-bit link-layer (MAC) address by inserting the hexadecimal number FFFE between the upper
three bytes (OUI field) and the lower three bytes (serial number) of the link layer address.
Question 508
What are three approaches that are used when migrating from an IPv4 addressing scheme to an IPv6 scheme.
What are three approaches that are used when migrating from an IPv4 addressing scheme to an IPv6 scheme. (Choose three.)
A. enable dual-stack routing
B. configure IPv6 directly
C. configure IPv4 tunnels between IPv6 islands
D. use proxying and translation to translate IPv6 packets into IPv4 packets
E. statically map IPv4 addresses to IPv6 addresses
F. use DHCPv6 to map IPv4 addresses to IPv6 addresses
Answer: ACD
Explanation:
Several methods are used terms of migration including tunneling, translators, and dual stack.
Tunnels are used to carry one protocol inside another, while translators simply translate IPv6 packets into IPv4 packets. Dual stack uses a combination of both
native IPv4 and IPv6. With dual stack, devices are able to run IPv4 and IPv6 together and if IPv6 communication is possible that is the preferred protocol. Hosts can
simultaneously reach IPv4 and IPv6 content.
Question 509
How many bits are contained in each field of an IPv6 address?
How many bits are contained in each field of an IPv6 address?
A. 24
B. 4
C. 8
D. 16
Answer: D
Explanation:
An IPv6 address is represented as eight groups of four hexadecimal digits, each group representing 16 bits (two octets). The groups are separated by colons (:). An
example of an IPv6 address is 2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334.
Question 510
Which subnet mask would be appropriate for a network address range to be subnetted for up to eight LANs, with each LAN containing 5 to 26 hosts?
Which subnet mask would be appropriate for a network address range to be subnetted for up to eight LANs, with each LAN containing 5 to 26 hosts?
A. 0.0.0.240
B. 255.255.255.252
C. 255.255.255.0
D. 255.255.255.224
E. 255.255.255.240
Answer: D
Explanation:
For a class C network, a mask of 255.255.255.224 will allow for up to 8 networks with 32 IP addresses each (30 usable).
Question 511
Which of the following should be entered into the IP properties box for the sales server?
An administrator must assign static IP addresses to the servers in a network. For network 192.168.20.24/29, the router is assigned the first usable host address while
the sales server is given the last usable host address. Which of the following should be entered into the IP properties box for the sales server?
A. IP address: 192.168.20.14
Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.248
Default Gateway: 192.168.20.9
B. IP address: 192.168.20.254
Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.0
Default Gateway: 192.168.20.1
C. IP address: 192.168.20.30
Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.248
Default Gateway: 192.168.20.25
D. IP address: 192.168.20.30
Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.240
Default Gateway: 192.168.20.17
E. IP address: 192.168.20.30
Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.240
Default Gateway: 192.168.20.25
Answer: C
Explanation:
For the 192.168.20.24/29 network, the usable hosts are 192.168.24.25 (router) ?192.168.24.30 (used for the sales server).
Question 512
What are two valid reasons for adopting IPv6 over IPv4?
The network administrator has been asked to give reasons for moving from IPv4 to IPv6. What are two valid reasons for adopting IPv6 over IPv4? (Choose two.)
A. no broadcast
C. change of destination address in the IPv6 header
B. change of source address in the IPv6 header
D. Telnet access does not require a password
E. autoconfiguration
F. NAT
Answer: AE
Explanation:
IPv6 does not use broadcasts, and autoconfiguration is a feature of IPV6 that allows for hosts to automatically obtain an IPv6 address.
Question 513
Which two statements describe characteristics of IPv6 unicast addressing?
Which two statements describe characteristics of IPv6 unicast addressing? (Choose two.)
A. Global addresses start with 2000::/3.
B. Link-local addresses start with FE00:/12.
C. Link-local addresses start with FF00::/10.
D. There is only one loopback address and it is ::1.
E. If a global address is assigned to an interface, then that is the only allowable address for the interface.
Answer: AD
Explanation:
Below is the list of common kinds of IPv6 addresses:
Question 515
What is the alternative notation for the IPv6 address B514:82C3:0000:0000:0029:EC7A:0000:EC72?
What is the alternative notation for the IPv6 address B514:82C3:0000:0000:0029:EC7A:0000:EC72?
A. B514 : 82C3 : 0029 : EC7A : EC72
B. B514 : 82C3 :: 0029 : EC7A : EC72
C. B514 : 82C3 : 0029 :: EC7A : 0000 : EC72
D. B514 : 82C3 :: 0029 : EC7A : 0 : EC72
Answer: D
Explanation:
There are two ways that an IPv6 address can be additionally compressed: compressing leading zeros and substituting a group of consecutive zeros with a single
double colon (::). Both of these can be used in any number of combinations to notate the same address. It is important to note that the double colon (::) can only be
used once within a single IPv6 address notation. So, the extra 0’s can only be compressed once.
Question 516
Which two benefits are provided by using a hierarchical addressing network addressing scheme?
Which two benefits are provided by using a hierarchical addressing network addressing scheme? (Choose two.)
A. reduces routing table entries
B. auto-negotiation of media rates
C. efficient utilization of MAC addresses
D. dedicated communications between devices
E. ease of management and troubleshooting
Answer: AE
Explanation:
Here are some of the benefits of hierarchical addressing:
Reference: http://www.ciscopress.com/articles/article.asp?p=174107
Question 517
What are three advantages of VLANs?
What are three advantages of VLANs? (Choose three.)
A. VLANs establish broadcast domains in switched networks.
B. VLANs utilize packet filtering to enhance network security.
C. VLANs provide a method of conserving IP addresses in large networks.
D. VLANs provide a low-latency internetworking alternative to routed networks.
E. VLANs allow access to network services based on department, not physical location.
F. VLANs can greatly simplify adding, moving, or changing hosts on the network.
Answer: AEF
Explanation:
VLAN technology is often used in practice, because it can better control layer2 broadcast to improve network security. This makes network more flexible and
scalable. Packet filtering is a function of firewall instead of VLAN.
Question 518
Which switch is elected as the root bridge for the spanning-tree instance of VLAN 1?
Three switches are connected to one another via trunk ports. Assuming the default switch configuration, which switch is elected as the root bridge for the spanningtree
instance of VLAN 1?
A. the switch with the highest MAC address
B. the switch with the lowest MAC address
C. the switch with the highest IP address
D. the switch with the lowest IP address
Answer: B
Explanation:
Each switch in your network will have a Bridge ID Priority value, more commonly referred to as a BID. This BID is a combination of a default priority value and the
switch’s MAC address, with the priority value listed first. The lowest BID will win the election process.
For example, if a Cisco switch has the default priority value of 32,768 and a MAC address of 11-22-33-44-55-66, the BID would be 32768:11-22-33-44-55-66.
Therefore, if the switch priority is left at the default, the MAC address is the deciding factor in the root bridge election.
Question 520
Which two of these statements regarding RSTP are correct?
Which two of these statements regarding RSTP are correct? (Choose two.)
A. RSTP cannot operate with PVST+.
B. RSTP defines new port roles.
C. RSTP defines no new port states.
D. RSTP is a proprietary implementation of IEEE 802.1D STP.
E. RSTP is compatible with the original IEEE 802.1D STP.
Answer: BE
Explanation:
When network topology changes, rapid spanning tree protocol (IEEE802.1W, referred to as RSTP) will speed up significantly the speed to re-calculate spanning tree.
RSTP not only defines the role of other ports: alternative port and backup port, but also defines status of 3 ports: discarding status, learning status, forwarding
status.
RSTP is 802.1D standard evolution, not revolution. It retains most of the parameters, and makes no changes.
Question 521
What are the possible trunking modes for a switch port?
What are the possible trunking modes for a switch port? (Choose three.)
A. transparent
B. auto
C. on
D. desirable
E. client
F. forwarding
Answer: BCD
Question 522
Which term describes a spanning-tree network that has all switch ports in either the blocking or fowarding state?
Which term describes a spanning-tree network that has all switch ports in either the blocking or fowarding state?
A. converged
B. redundant
C. provisioned
D. spanned
Answer: A
Explanation:
Spanning Tree Protocol convergence (Layer 2 convergence) happens when bridges and switches have transitioned to either the forwarding or blocking state. When
layer 2 is converged, root bridge is elected and all port roles (Root, Designated and Non-Designated) in all switches are selected.
Question 525
Which three of these statements regarding 802.1Q trunking are correct?
Which three of these statements regarding 802.1Q trunking are correct? (Choose three.)
A. 802.1Q native VLAN frames are untagged by default.
B. 802.1Q trunking ports can also be secure ports.
C. 802.1Q trunks can use 10 Mb/s Ethernet interfaces.
D. 802.1Q trunks require full-duplex, point-to-point connectivity.
E. 802.1Q trunks should have native VLANs that are the same at both ends.
Answer: ACE
Explanation:
By default, 802.1Q trunk defined Native VLAN in order to forward unmarked frame. Switches can forward Layer 2 frame from Native VLAN on unmarked trunks
port. Receiver switches will transmit all unmarked packets to Native VLAN. Native VLAN is the default VLAN configuration of port. Note for the 802.1Q trunk ports
between two devices, the same Native VLAN configuration is required on both sides of the link. If the Native VLAN in 802.1Q trunk ports on same trunk link is
properly configured, it could lead to layer 2 loops. The 802.1Q trunk link transmits VLAN information through Ethernet.
Question 528
Which are valid modes for a switch port used as a VLAN trunk?
Which are valid modes for a switch port used as a VLAN trunk? (Choose three.)
A. transparent
B. auto
C. on
D. desirable
E. blocking
F. forwarding
Answer: BCD
Question 530
What is one benefit of PVST+?
What is one benefit of PVST+?
A. PVST+ supports Layer 3 load balancing without loops.
B. PVST+ reduces the CPU cycles for all the switches in the network.
C. PVST+ allows the root switch location to be optimized per VLAN.
D. PVST+ automatically selects the root bridge location, to provide optimized bandwidth usage.
Answer: C
Explanation:
The PVST+ provides Layer 2 load-balancing for the VLAN on which it runs. You can create different logical topologies by using the VLANs on your network to
ensure that all of your links are used but that no one link is oversubscribed. Each instance of PVST+ on a VLAN has a single root switch. This root switch propagates
the spanning-tree information associated with that VLAN to all other switches in the network. Because each switch has the same information about the network, this
process ensures that the network topology is maintained and optimized per VLAN.
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/switches/lan/catalyst3750x_3560x/software/release/12.2_55_se/configuration/guide/swstp.html
Question 532
Which two of these are characteristics of the 802.1Q protocol?
Which two of these are characteristics of the 802.1Q protocol? (Choose two.)
A. It is used exclusively for tagging VLAN frames and does not address network reconvergence following switched network topology changes.
B. It modifies the 802.3 frame header, and thus requires that the FCS be recomputed.
C. It is a Layer 2 messaging protocol which maintains VLAN configurations across networks.
D. It includes an 8-bit field which specifies the priority of a frame.
E. It is a trunking protocol capable of carrying untagged frames.
Answer: BE
Explanation:
802.1Q protocol, or Virtual Bridged Local Area Networks protocol, mainly stipulates the realization of the VLAN. 802.1Q is a standardized relay method that inserts
4 bytes field into the original Ethernet frame and re-calculate the FCS. 802.1Q frame relay supports two types of frame: marked and non-marked. Non-marked frame
carries no VLAN identification information.
Question 535
Which command can be used from a PC to verify the connectivity between hosts that connect through a switch in the same LAN?
Which command can be used from a PC to verify the connectivity between hosts that connect through a switch in the same LAN?
A. pingaddress
B. tracertaddress
C. tracerouteaddress
D. arpaddress
Answer: A
Explanation:
ICMP pings are used to verify connectivity between two IP hosts. Traceroute is used to verify the router hop path traffic will take but in this case since the hosts are
in the same LAN there will be no router hops involved.
Question 536
Which two benefits are provided by creating VLANs?
Which two benefits are provided by creating VLANs? (Choose two.)
A. added security
B. dedicated bandwidth
C. provides segmentation
D. allows switches to route traffic between subinterfaces
E. contains collisions
Answer: AC
Explanation:
A VLAN is a switched network that is logically segmented on an organizational basis, by functions, project teams, or applications rather than on a physical or
geographical basis.
Security:
VLANs also improve security by isolating groups. High-security users can be grouped into a VLAN, possible on the same physical segment, and no users outside that
VLAN can communicate with them
LAN Segmentation
VLANs allow logical network topologies to overlay the physical switched infrastructure such that any arbitrary collection of LAN ports can be combined into an
autonomous user group or community of interest. The technology logically segments the network into separate Layer 2 broadcast domains whereby packets are
switched between ports designated to be within the same VLAN. By containing traffic originating on a particular LAN only to other LANs in the same VLAN, switched
virtual networks avoid wasting bandwidth.
Question 538
What does a Layer 2 switch use to decide where to forward a received frame?
What does a Layer 2 switch use to decide where to forward a received frame?
A. source MAC address
B. source IP address
C. source switch port
D. destination IP address
E. destination port address
F. destination MAC address
Answer: F
Explanation:
When a frame is received, the switch looks at the destination hardware address and finds the interface if it is in its MAC address table. If the address is unknown, the
frame is broadcast on all interfaces except the one it was received on.
Question 539
At which layer of the OSI model is RSTP used to prevent loops?
At which layer of the OSI model is RSTP used to prevent loops?
A. physical
B. data link
C. network
D. transport
Answer: B
Explanation:
RSTP and STP operate on switches and are based on the exchange of Bridge Protocol Data Units (BPDUs) between switches. One of the most important fields in
BPDUs is the Bridge Priority in which the MAC address is used to elect the Root Bridge -> RSTP operates at Layer 2 ?Data Link layer -> .
Question 541
Which three statements about RSTP are true?
Which three statements about RSTP are true? (Choose three.)
A. RSTP significantly reduces topology reconverging time after a link failure.
B. RSTP expands the STP port roles by adding the alternate and backup roles.
C. RSTP port states are blocking, discarding, learning, or forwarding.
D. RSTP provides a faster transition to the forwarding state on point-to-point links than STP does.
E. RSTP also uses the STP proposal-agreement sequence.
F. RSTP uses the same timer-based process as STP on point-to-point links.
Answer: ABD
Explanation:
One big disadvantage of STP is the low convergence which is very important in switched network. To overcome this problem, in 2001, the IEEE with document
802.1w introduced an evolution of the Spanning Tree Protocol: Rapid Spanning Tree Protocol (RSTP), which significantly reduces the convergence time after a
topology change occurs in the network. While STP can take 30 to 50 seconds to transit from a blocking state to a forwarding state, RSTP is typically able to respond
less than 10 seconds of a physical link failure.
RSTP works by adding an alternative port and a backup port compared to STP. These ports are allowed to immediately enter the forwarding state rather than
passively wait for the network to converge.
RSTP bridge port roles:
* Root port – A forwarding port that is the closest to the root bridge in terms of path cost
* Alternate port – A best alternate path to the root bridge. This path is different than using the root port. The alternative port moves to the forwarding state if there is
a failure on the designated port for the segment.
* Designated port – A forwarding port for every LAN segment
* Backup port – A backup/redundant path to a segment where another bridge port already connects. The backup port applies only when a single switch has two links
to the same segment (collision domain). To have two links to the same collision domain, the switch must be attached to a hub.
* Disabled port – Not strictly part of STP, a network administrator can manually disable a port
Question 544
Which statement about VLAN operation on Cisco Catalyst switches is true?
Which statement about VLAN operation on Cisco Catalyst switches is true?
A. When a packet is received from an 802.1Q trunk, the VLAN ID can be determined from the source
MAC address and the MAC address table.
B. Unknown unicast frames are retransmitted only to the ports that belong to the same VLAN.
C. Broadcast and multicast frames are retransmitted to ports that are configured on different VLAN.
D. Ports between switches should be configured in access mode so that VLANs can span across the ports.
Answer: B
Explanation:
Each VLAN resides in its own broadcast domain, so incoming frames with unknown destinations are only transmitted to ports that reside in the same VLAN as the
incoming frame.
Question 545
Which VLAN range can be added, modified, and removed on a Cisco switch?
Assuming the default switch configuration, which VLAN range can be added, modified, and removed on a Cisco switch?
A. 1 through 1001
B. 2 through 1001
C. 1 through 1002
D. 2 through 1005
Answer: B
Explanation:
VLAN 1 is the default VLAN on Cisco switch. It always exists and can not be added, modified or removed.
VLANs 1002-1005 are default VLANs for FDDI & Token Ring and they can’t be deleted or used for Ethernet.
Question 546
Which two link protocols are used to carry multiple VLANs over a single link?
Which two link protocols are used to carry multiple VLANs over a single link? (Choose two.)
A. VTP
B. 802.1q
C. IGP
D. ISL
E. 802.3u
Answer: BD
Explanation:
Cisco switches can use two different encapsulation types for trunks, the industry standard 802.1q or the Cisco proprietary ISL. Generally, most network engineers
prefer to use 802.1q since it is standards based and will interoperate with other vendors.
Question 548
Why will a switch never learn a broadcast address?
Why will a switch never learn a broadcast address?
A. Broadcasts only use network layer addressing.
B. A broadcast frame is never forwarded by a switch.
C. A broadcast address will never be the source address of a frame.
D. Broadcast addresses use an incorrect format for the switching table.
E. Broadcast frames are never sent to switches.
Answer: C
Explanation:
Switches dynamically learn MAC addresses based on the source MAC addresses that it sees, and since a broadcast is never the source, it will never learn the
broadcast address.
Question 550
What is the function of the command switchport trunk native vlan 999 on a Cisco Catalyst switch?
What is the function of the command switchport trunk native vlan 999 on a Cisco Catalyst switch?
A. It creates a VLAN 999 interface.
B. It designates VLAN 999 for untagged traffic.
C. It blocks VLAN 999 traffic from passing on the trunk.
D. It designates VLAN 999 as the default for all unknown tagged traffic.
Answer: B
Explanation:
Configuring the Native VLAN for Untagged Traffic
A trunk port configured with 802.1Q tagging can receive both tagged and untagged traffic. By default, the switch forwards untagged traffic in the native VLAN
configured for the port. The native VLAN is VLAN 1 by default.
Question 552
Which command enables RSTP on a switch?
Which command enables RSTP on a switch?
A. spanning-tree uplinkfast
B. spanning-tree mode rapid-pvst
C. spanning-tree backbonefast
D. spanning-tree mode mst
Answer: B
Explanation:
Ethernet network is a shared environment so all devices have the right to access to the medium.
If more than one device transmits simultaneously, the signals collide and can not reach the destination.
If a device detects another device is sending, it will wait for a specified amount of time before attempting to transmit.
When there is no traffic detected, a device will transmit its message. While this transmission is occurring, the device continues to listen for traffic or collisions on the
LAN. After the message is sent, the device returns to its default listening mode.
Question 554
Which two commands can be used to verify a trunk link configuration status on a given Cisco switch interface?
Which two commands can be used to verify a trunk link configuration status on a given Cisco switch interface? (Choose two.)
A. show interface trunk
B. show interface interface
C. show ip interface brief
D. show interface vlan
E. show interface switchport
Answer: AE
Question 555
Which two states are the port states when RSTP has converged?
Which two states are the port states when RSTP has converged? (Choose two.)
A. discarding
B. listening
C. learning
D. forwarding
E. disabled
Answer: AD
Explanation:
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/tech/tk389/tk621/technologies_white_paper09186a0080094cfa.shtml#states
Question 556
What two scenarios can devices transmit?
In an Ethernet network, under what two scenarios can devices transmit? (Choose two.)
A. when they receive a special token
B. when there is a carrier
C. when they detect no other devices are sending
D. when the medium is idle
E. when the server grants access
Answer: CD
Explanation:
Ethernet network is a shared environment so all devices have the right to access to the medium.
If more than one device transmits simultaneously, the signals collide and can not reach the destination.
If a device detects another device is sending, it will wait for a specified amount of time before attempting to transmit.
When there is no traffic detected, a device will transmit its message. While this transmission is occurring, the device continues to listen for traffic or collisions on the
LAN. After the message is sent, the device returns to its default listening mode.
Question 558
Which of the following are benefits of VLANs?
Which of the following are benefits of VLANs? (Choose three.)
A. They increase the size of collision domains.
B. They allow logical grouping of users by function.
C. They can enhance network security.
D. They increase the size of broadcast domains while decreasing the number of collision domains.
E. They increase the number of broadcast domains while decreasing the size of the broadcast domains.
F. They simplify switch administration.
Answer: BCE
Explanation:
When using VLAN the number and size of collision domains remain the same -> VLANs allow to group users by function, not by location or geography -> . VLANs
help minimize the incorrect configuration of VLANs so it enhances the security of the network -> .
VLAN increases the size of broadcast domains but does not decrease the number of collision domains ->
VLANs increase the number of broadcast domains while decreasing the size of the broadcast domains which increase the utilization of the links. It is also a big
advantage of VLAN -> . VLANs are useful but they are more complex and need more administration ->
Question 559
Which IEEE standard protocol is initiated as a result of successful DTP completion in a switch over Fast Ethernet?
Which IEEE standard protocol is initiated as a result of successful DTP completion in a switch over Fast Ethernet?
A. 802.3ad
B. 802.1w
C. 802.1D
D. 802.1Q
Answer: D
Explanation:
Dynamic Trunking Protocol (DTP) is a Cisco proprietary protocol for negotiating trunking on a link between two devices and for negotiating the type of trunking
encapsulation (802.1Q) to be used.
Question 560
What are three benefits of implementing VLANs?
What are three benefits of implementing VLANs? (Choose three.)
A. A higher level of network security can be reached by separating sensitive data traffic from other network traffic.
B. A more efficient use of bandwidth can be achieved allowing many physical groups to use the same network infrastructure.
C. A more efficient use of bandwidth can be achieved allowing many logical networks to use the same network infrastructure.
D. Broadcast storms can be mitigated by increasing the number of broadcast domains, thus reducing their size.
E. Broadcast storms can be mitigated by decreasing the number of broadcast domains, thus increasing their size.
F. VLANs make it easier for IT staff to configure new logical groups, because the VLANs all belong to the same broadcast domain.
G. Port-based VLANs increase switch-port use efficiency, thanks to 802.1Q trunks.
Answer: ACD
Explanation:
Benefits of VLANs
VLAN is a network structure which allows users to communicate while in different locations by sharing one multicast domain and a single broadcast. They provide
numerous networking benefits and have become popular in the market. For instance, it helps reduce administrative costs when users are geographically dispersed.
1. Inexpensive
The popularity of VLANs is due to the fact that changes, adds, and moves can be attained simply by making necessary configurations on the VLAN port. Timeconsuming,
re-addressing, and host reconfigurations is now a thing of the past, because network configuration can be made at ease when need arises.
2. Better management
A VLAN typically solve the scalability issues that exist in a large network by breaking the main domain into several VLAN groups or smaller broadcast
configurations, thereby encourage better control of multicast traffic as well as broadcast domains.
3. Improves network security
High-security can be positioned in different VLAN groups to ensure that non-members cannot receive their broadcasts. On the other hand, a router is added and
workgroups relocated into centralized locations.
4. Enhances performance
A more efficient use of bandwidth can be achieved allowing many logical networks to use the same network infrastructure.
5. Segment multiple networks
VLANs are typically used to achieve multiple purposes. They are popularly used to reduce broadcast traffic. Each VLAN creates a separate, smaller broadcast
domain.
6. Better administration
VLANs facilitate grouping of multiple geographical stations. When VLAN users move to another physical location, the network does not have to be configured.
Question 561
What is the effect of adding switch ports to a new VLAN on the switch?
A switch is configured with all ports assigned to vlan 2 with full duplex FastEthernet to segment existing departmental traffic. What is the effect of adding switch
ports to a new VLAN on the switch?
A. More collision domains will be created.
B. IP address utilization will be more efficient.
C. More bandwidth will be required than was needed previously.
D. An additional broadcast domain will be created.
Answer: D
Explanation:
Each VLAN creates its own broadcast domain. Since this is a full duplex switch, each port is a separate collision domain.
Question 562
Which switch would STP choose to become the root bridge in the selection process?
Which switch would STP choose to become the root bridge in the selection process?
A. 32768: 11-22-33-44-55-66
B. 32768: 22-33-44-55-66-77
C. 32769: 11-22-33-44-55-65
D. 32769: 22-33-44-55-66-78
Answer: A
Question 563
Which two protocols are used by bridges and/or switches to prevent loops in a layer 2 network?
Which two protocols are used by bridges and/or switches to prevent loops in a layer 2 network? (Choose two.)
A. 802.1d
B. VTP
C. 802.1q
D. STP
E. SAP
Answer: AD
Explanation:
This question is to examine the STP protocol.
STP (802.1d) is used to prevent Layer 2 loops.
802.1q is a Frame Relay protocol which belongs to VLAN.
SAP is a concept of the OSI model.
Question 564
What is the function of the command switchport trunk native vlan 999 on a Cisco Catalyst switch?
This question tests the operating principles of the Layer 2 switch. Check the MAC address table of Switch1 and find that the MAC address of the host does not exist
in the table. Switch1 will flood
What is the function of the command switchport trunk native vlan 999 on a Cisco Catalyst switch?
A. It creates a VLAN 999 interface.
B. It designates VLAN 999 for untagged traffic.
C. It blocks VLAN 999 traffic from passing on the trunk.
D. It designates VLAN 999 as the default for all unknown tagged traffic.
Answer: B
Explanation:
Configuring the Native VLAN for Untagged Traffic
A trunk port configured with 802.1Q tagging can receive both tagged and untagged traffic. By default, the switch forwards untagged traffic in the native VLAN
configured for the port. The native VLAN is VLAN 1 by default.
Question 565
What value is primarily used to determine which port becomes the root port on each nonroot switch in a spanning-tree topology?
What value is primarily used to determine which port becomes the root port on each nonroot switch in a spanning-tree topology?
A. path cost
B. lowest port MAC address
C. VTP revision number
D. highest port priority number
E. port priority number and MAC address
Answer: A
Explanation:
The path cost to the root bridge is the most important value to determine which port will become the root port on each non-root switch. In particular, the port with
lowest cost to the root bridge will become root port (on non-root switch).
Question 568
What two purposes does the Ethernet protocol use physical addresses?
For what two purposes does the Ethernet protocol use physical addresses? (Choose two.)
A. to uniquely identify devices at Layer 2
B. to allow communication with devices on a different network
C. to differentiate a Layer 2 frame from a Layer 3 packet
D. to establish a priority system to determine which device gets to transmit first
E. to allow communication between different devices on the same network
F. to allow detection of a remote device when its physical address is unknown
Answer: AE
Explanation:
Physical addresses or MAC addresses are used to identify devices at layer 2.
MAC addresses are only used to communicate on the same network. To communicate on different network we have to use Layer 3 addresses (IP addresses) -> B is
not correct.
Layer 2 frame and Layer 3 packet can be recognized via headers. Layer 3 packet also contains physical address ->
On Ethernet, each frame has the same priority to transmit by default -> All devices need a physical address to identify itself. If not, they can not communicate ->
Question 570
Where does routing occur within the DoD TCP/IP reference model?
Where does routing occur within the DoD TCP/IP reference model?
A. application
B. internet
C. network
D. transport
Answer: B Explanation:
Explanation:
The picture below shows the comparison between TCP/IP model & OSI model. Notice that the Internet Layer of TCP/IP is equivalent to the Network Layer which is
responsible for routing decision.
Question 571
Which three statements accurately describe Layer 2 Ethernet switches?
Which three statements accurately describe Layer 2 Ethernet switches? (Choose three.)
A. Spanning Tree Protocol allows switches to automatically share VLAN information.
B. Establishing VLANs increases the number of broadcast domains.
C. Switches that are configured with VLANs make forwarding decisions based on both Layer 2 and Layer 3 address information.
D. Microsegmentation decreases the number of collisions on the network.
E. In a properly functioning network with redundant switched paths, each switched segment will contain one root bridge with all its ports in the forwarding state. All
other switches in that broadcast domain will have only one root port.
F. If a switch receives a frame for an unknown destination, it uses ARP to resolve the address.
Answer: BDE
Explanation:
Microsegmentation is a network design (functionality) where each workstation or device on a network gets its own dedicated segment (collision domain) to the
switch. Each network device gets the full bandwidth of the segment and does not have to share the segment with other devices. Microsegmentation reduces and can
even eliminate collisions because each segment is its own collision domain -> .
Note: Microsegmentation decreases the number of collisions but it increases the number of collision domains.
Question 574
Which of the following correctly describe steps in the OSI data encapsulation process?
Which of the following correctly describe steps in the OSI data encapsulation process? (Choose two.)
A. The transport layer divides a data stream into segments and may add reliability and flow control information.
B. The data link layer adds physical source and destination addresses and an FCS to the segment.
C. Packets are created when the network layer encapsulates a frame with source and destination host addresses and protocol-related control information.
D. Packets are created when the network layer adds Layer 3 addresses and control information to a segment.
E. The presentation layer translates bits into voltages for transmission across the physical link.
Answer: AD
Explanation:
The Application Layer (Layer 7) refers to communications services to applications and is the interface between the network and the application. Examples include.
Telnet, HTTP, FTP, Internet browsers, NFS, SMTP gateways, SNMP, X.400 mail, and FTAM.
The Presentation Layer (Layer 6) defining data formats, such as ASCII text, EBCDIC text, binary, BCD, and JPEG. Encryption also is defined as a presentation
layer service. Examples include.
JPEG, ASCII, EBCDIC, TIFF, GIF, PICT, encryption, MPEG, and MIDI.
The Session Layer (Layer 5) defines how to start, control, and end communication sessions. This includes the control and management of multiple bidirectional
messages so that the application can be notified if only some of a series of messages are completed. This allows the presentation layer to have a seamless view of an
incoming stream of data. The presentation layer can be presented with data if all flows occur in some cases. Examples include. RPC, SQL, NFS, NetBios names,
AppleTalk ASP, and DECnet SCP
The Transport Layer (Layer 4) defines several functions, including the choice of protocols. The most important Layer 4 functions are error recovery and flow control.
The transport layer may not, depending on the choice of protocols. Multiplexing of incoming data for different flows to congestion by attempting to send data at a
rate that the network can accommodate, or it might provide for retransmission, i.e., error recovery, and may use flow control to prevent unnecessary applications on
the same host is also performed. Reordering of the incoming data stream when packets arrive out of order is included. Examples include. TCP, UDP, and SPX.
The Network Layer (Layer 3) defines end-to-end delivery of packets and defines logical addressing to accomplish this. It also defines how routing works and how
routes are learned; and how to fragment a packet into smaller packets to accommodate media with smaller maximum transmission unit sizes. Examples include. IP,
IPX, AppleTalk DDP, and ICMP. Both IP and IPX define logical addressing, routing, the learning of routing information, and end-to-end delivery rules. The IP and
IPX protocols most closely match the OSI network layer (Layer 3) and are called Layer 3 protocols because their functions most closely match OSI’s Layer 3.
The Data Link Layer (Layer 2) is concerned with getting data across one particular link or medium.
The data link protocols define delivery across an individual link. These protocols are necessarily concerned with the type of media in use. Examples includE. IEEE
802.3/802.2, HDLC, Frame Relay, PPP, FDDI, ATM, and IEEE 802.5/802.2.
Question 575
Which OSI layer did this happen?
A receiving host computes the checksum on a frame and determines that the frame is damaged.
The frame is then discarded. At which OSI layer did this happen?
A. session
B. transport
C. network
D. data link
E. physical
Answer: D
Explanation:
The Data Link layer provides the physical transmission of the data and handles error notification, network topology, and flow control. The Data Link layer formats
the message into pieces, each called a data frame, and adds a customized header containing the hardware destination and source address. Protocols Data Unit
(PDU) on Datalink layer is called frame. According to this question the frame is damaged and discarded which will happen at the Data Link layer.
Question 576
What is known about the network interface port?
A network interface port has collision detection and carrier sensing enabled on a shared twisted pair network. From this statement, what is known about the network
interface port?
A. This is a 10 Mb/s switch port.
B. This is a 100 Mb/s switch port.
C. This is an Ethernet port operating at half duplex.
D. This is an Ethernet port operating at full duplex.
E. This is a port on a network interface card in a PC.
Answer: C
Explanation:
Modern Ethernet networks built with switches and full-duplex connections no longer utilize CSMA/CD. CSMA/CD is only used in obsolete shared media Ethernet
(which uses repeater or hub).
Question 577
What is the highest layer of the protocol stack that the network administrator is using for this operation?
A network administrator is verifying the configuration of a newly installed host by establishing an FTP connection to a remote server. What is the highest layer of the
protocol stack that the network administrator is using for this operation?
A. application
B. presentation
C. session
D. transport
E. internet
F. data link
Answer: A
Explanation:
FTP belongs to Application layer and it is also the highest layer of the OSI model.
Question 579
Which of the following describes the roles of devices in a WAN?
Which of the following describes the roles of devices in a WAN? (Choose three.)
A. A CSU/DSU terminates a digital local loop.
B. A modem terminates a digital local loop.
C. A CSU/DSU terminates an analog local loop.
D. A modem terminates an analog local loop.
E. A router is commonly considered a DTE device.
F. A router is commonly considered a DCE device.
Answer: ADE
Explanation:
The idea behind a WAN is to be able to connect two DTE networks together through a DCE network. The network’s DCE device (includes CSU/DSU) provides
clocking to the DTE-connected interface (the router’s serial interface).
A modem modulates outgoing digital signals from a computer or other digital device to analog signals for a conventional copper twisted pair telephone line and
demodulates the incoming analog signal and converts it to a digital signal for the digital device. A CSU/DSU is used between two digital lines –
For more explanation of answer D, in telephony the local loop (also referred to as a subscriber line) is the physical link or circuit that connects from the demarcation
point of the customer premises to the edge of the carrier or telecommunications service provider’s network. Therefore a modem terminates an analog local loop is
correct.
Question 581
Which layer in the OSI reference model is responsible for determining the availability of the receiving program and checking to see if enough resources exist for that
communication?
Which layer in the OSI reference model is responsible for determining the availability of the receiving program and checking to see if enough resources exist for that
communication?
A. transport
B. network
C. presentation
D. session
E. application
Answer: E
Explanation:
This question is to examine the OSI reference model. The Application layer is responsible for identifying and establishing the availability of the intended
communication partner and determining whether sufficient resources for the intended communication exist.

